Almost 3 million hectares on fire, including Arctic, with fumes having hit area larger than European Union.
A series of natural disasters are hitting Siberia, with the latest a dire threat from severe flooding to Baikal - the oldest and deepest lake in the worth, containing 20% of the planet’s unfrozen freshwater. 
The alert concerns flooding in Baikalsk - where evacuation has begun - and concerns that toxic mudflows can dump poisonous sludge from a former pulp and paper mill into the lake’s pristine maters. 
Pools of liquid sludge containing lignin poses a huge threat to the life in Baikal with warnings of an ‘ecological catastrophe’.
‘We can only pray now,” said one campaigner pointing to a risk of a dam burst on the Solzana River where a bride had been swept away already. 
The alert concerns flooding in Baikalsk. Water comes close to the Trans-Siberian Railway, some districts of the town are already flooded, bridge across river Solzana which leads to Baikal Pulp and Paper Mill collapsed. 
While Baikal Pulp and Paper Mill, a Soviet-era production facility seen as an ecological threat to the lake,  is now closed, the risk of pollution from untreated waste storages at the site is acute, say reports. 
The last devastating Baikal mudflow was in July 1971 which washed 20 kilometres of the Trans-Siberian Railway into the lake and destroyed several sections of the road from Irkutsk to Ulan-Ude.
The last devastating Baikal mudflow was in July 1971 which washed 20 kilometres of the Trans-Siberian Railway into the lake and destroyed several sections of the road from Irkutsk to Ulan-Ude.
Some 3,000 kilometres east, the settlement of Tulun has faced its second massive evacuation in a month from flooding - while also suffering from wildfire smoke. 
President Vladimir Putin has twice visited this area in Irkutsk region after the first wave of flooding.
Smoke pollution has eased in Kemerovo, Tomsk, Novosibirsk, and Altai regions - but is forecast to return with a change of wind direction.
Out-of-control infernos are destroying permafrost by burning the tundra both north and south of the Arctic Circle.
Elsewhere centuries-old boreal forests of cedar, pine and larch - known as the  lungs of the Northern Hemisphere - are turning to ashes. 
Concern in rising over health risks with locals complaining they are living in a “gas chamber”, while wild animals are “fried alive”.
Here, an Emergencies Ministry pilot said that he has been waiting to fly his water-spraying plane on burning forests but no order was given. 
Some 2,000 have been evacuated in major flooding in Amur region in the Russian Far East. Pictures: Amurskaya Pravda, @tim0n050
Like many locals he attacked the authorities for turning a blind eye to fires in remote locations where few live. 
‘They say it is expensive to extinguish and if part of the forest burns down - it is not scary.,’ he said. 'I think this is absurd. 
‘But why was there no order to fly out earlier, when the fire had just begun to spread. Everything was under control then?
'I have been living in the North for a long time - there have been fires before, but I have not seen one like this year. 
‘Yes, the fire is far from people, for example, in Vanavara, but there is such smoke there! And no-one thinks about the people who are there.’
More than 100 settlements in Irkutsk region are covered with the smoke too. Piuctured: Kirensk, Ust-Ilimsk, Ust-Kut towns.
‘We are right next to the epicentres of wildfires, and we struggle to breathe,’ complained mother Marina in Evenkia, in the north of Krasnoyarsk region, one of the worst-hit. 
Olga from Tura, in the same region, said: ‘We see bears coming out of the taiga one after the other, deer, too, and smaller animals - but mainly bears. 
‘People walk around the village in masks but they are no real help as even with a mask on it hurts to breathe.' 
More than 1,500 km further west, Valeria Glukhova from the city of Omsk, said: ‘I was at a bus stop and I felt like I was locked inside a gas chamber. 
‘Every time I inhaled the air burnt my lungs. I returned home with awful headache and soon started vomiting.
‘I had to walk for about ten minutes, and now hair smells of smoke so badly, as if I was sitting all night long by a campfire. 
‘I saw many teenagers and children wearing medical masks, but I am pretty sure they are not enough, you literally need a gas mask.’
Vanavara settlement is covered with the smoke, but the head of the village denies any threat to people's health.
In badly-hit Vanavara locals have posted pictures which have been disputed by local administration chief Alexander Zarubin who accused them in exaggeration, using photoshop or filters, which they deny. 
A senior regional official denied that the situation was as serious as resdients and the media had claimed. 'This is a common natural phenomenon, it is meaningless to fight with this, and sometimes it can be even harmful. If we have a snowstorm in winter in cold weather, no one comes up with the idea to drown icebergs so that we have a warmer weather.’ said Krasnoyarsk governor Alexander Uss.
Today Russia declared a state of emergency over wildfires in Krasnoyarsk and Irkutsk regions and parts of Sakha (Yakutia) and Buryatia republics.
The views expressed in the comments above are those of our readers. 'Siberian Times' reserves the right to pre-moderate some comments.
Almost 3 million hectares on fire, including Arctic, with fumes having hit area larger than European Union.
Krasnoyarsk and Novosibirsk suffering smoke pollution and infernos rage in forests after hot, dry weather.
Mammals were being readied for sale to aquariums in China, but now are to return to wild after public campaign.
Big cat Tikhon refused to be scared away by warning shots as veteran alpha male makes clear he wants to come in from the wild.
Gelandewagen parade videos leads to 'career change' as Russia demands highest standards from secret servicemen.