Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification.
Russian police detained nearly 1,400 political protestors calling for fair elections, rights group says
Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification.
Russian National Guard agents detain protesters during an unauthorised rally demanding independent and opposition candidates be allowed to run for office in local election in September, in downtown Moscow on July 27, 2019.
 Nearly 1,400 people were detained by Russian police Saturday as authorities struck back at a political protest.     
 Moscow authorities jailed opposition figures and warned protestors that a demonstration would be illegal ahead of the protests.     
 But authorities' indifference to protestors' push for opposition candidates to stand in local elections this fall sparked the second violent clash in a week.     
 Russian police detained nearly 1,400 people Saturday in a harsh response to a protest that Moscow authorities had ruled illegal in an effort to quash opposition political candidates, according to a Russian monitoring group. 
 Some of the barred prospective candidates were detained ahead of the protest and about 30 people were barred from the September elections saying they had failed to collect enough valid signatures to be included. 
 As the protests raged on, police attempted to fully block Moscow's City Hall before some groups of protestors broke through to block traffic on some of the city's largest streets, according to Moscow Times reporter Evan Gershkovich. 
 Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin reportedly warned on social media beforehand that the authorities wouldn't hold back in disciplining demonstrators.                                                                                 
The creator of the fake presidential seal displayed behind Trump said it was 'just a goofy thing' that he never expected to go viral

                    Apple already has a China problem. Here's why it could get worse.
                

                    Google’s $8 billion cloud confession sent its stock soaring. Here are the other hidden goldmines in Google’s business that are still shrouded in secrecy.
                

                    The best way to teach yourself to code and land a six-figure job, from 5 people who've done it
                

                    Here are 25 of the most innovative CIOs leading their companies' strategies in cloud computing, cybersecurity, and AI, according to experts and their peers
                

                    Billionaire 'Bond King' Jeffrey Gundlach unpacks a market phenomenon that takes place just before a recession hits — and warns it's happening right now
                
Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification.