JOURNALIST Glenn Greenwald has vowed to stay in Brazil despite threats from far-right President Jair Bolsonaro to jail him for claiming that Justice Minister Sergio Moro is corrupt.
Mr Bolsonaro warned that the Rio-based US journalist “may be imprisoned” for publishing information on news website The Intercept that alleged Mr Moro had been part of a plot to keep left-wing former president Luiz Inacio “Lula” da Silva in prison.
“Contrary to Bolsonaro's wishes, he is not (yet) a dictator. He has no power to order people to be arrested.
“There are still courts in operation. To arrest someone, you have to present evidence to a court that they have committed a crime. This evidence does not exist.”
“I have the power to leave Brazil voluntarily — and I had that power all the time. But I did not and will not, despite these threats. Because? Because I know there’s nothing against me. I will defend the democracy of my children’s country,” he said.
The row erupted after The Intercept published articles that included evidence of phone and Telegram app messages between Mr Moro, then the judge in charge of the Car Wash corruption cases, and Deltan Dallagnol, the main state prosecutor.
It is alleged that the pair colluded to keep Lula in prison on corruption charges despite a lack of evidence, preventing the popular politician, who was leading in the polls, from running in last year’s presidential election. Mr Bolsonaro won the election and handed Mr Moro his Justice Ministry post soon after.
A new law was introduced by Mr Moro on Friday allowing “dangerous” foreigners to be removed from the country. Mr Greenwald is married to Brazilian MP David Miranda and the pair have two adopted children. Mr Bolsonaro accused him of plotting the marriage in order to avoid being deported from Brazil.
“He would not apply to the new rules because he is married to another man and they have adopted children in Brazil. Scoundrel, scoundrel … to avoid a problem he marries another scoundrel and adopts a child in Brazil.
The Brazilian Association of Investigative Journalism warned: “Without free journalism, the other freedoms will also die. Enough persecution.”
You can’t buy a revolution, but you can help the only daily paper in
			Britain that’s fighting for one by joining the 501 club.
By becoming a 501 Club member you are helping the Morning Star cover its
			printing, distribution and staff costs — help keep our paper thriving by
			joining!
You can’t buy a revolution, but you can help the only daily paper in
			Britain that’s fighting for one by become a member of the People’s
			Printing Press Society.
The Morning Star is a readers’ co-operative, which means you can become
			an owner of the paper too by buying shares in the society.
Shares are £1 each — though unlike capitalist firms, each shareholder
			has an equal say. Money from shares contributes directly to keep our
			paper thriving.
You can’t buy a revolution, but you can help the only daily paper in
			Britain that’s fighting for one by donating to the Fighting Fund.
The Morning Star is unique, as a lone socialist voice in a sea of
			corporate media. We offer a platform for those who would otherwise never
			be listened to, coverage of stories that would otherwise be buried.
The rich don’t like us, and they don’t advertise with us, so we rely on
			you, our readers and friends. With a regular donation to our monthly
			Fighting Fund, we can continue to thumb our noses at the fat cats and
			tell truth to power.
VENEZUELAN President Nicolas Maduro was joined by his Cuban counterpart Miguel Diaz-Canel yesterday as they issued a rallying cry for regional unit
We're a reader-owned co-operative, which means you can become part of the paper too by buying shares in the People’s Press Printing Society.
 We're a reader-owned co-operative, which means you can become part of the paper too by buying shares in the People’s Press Printing Society.