Police detail suspect's visits to 'holy sites' from anime series ahead of arson attack on Kyoto studio

								The suspect in a deadly arson attack against a Kyoto Animation Co. studio in the city of Kyoto visited key sites related to an anime work produced by the company prior to the July 18 fire, it has been learned.

The Kyoto Prefectural Police are ...							

								With Tokyo's summer heat and unpredictable weather likely to prove a severe headache during the 2020 Olympics, sports bodies are using every resource at their disposal to prepare athletes and spectators for extreme conditions.
Several organizations have turned to a weather forecasting company to feed ...							

								An unrepentant President Donald Trump has been testing the limits of the nation's tolerance from the day he took office. Now he has cast off one of the few remaining voices trying to curtail his at times mercurial impulses.

Trump nudged out national intelligence director ...							
One week after arson attack on Kyoto Animation studio, police finish identifying all 34 victims						

		As a professional ultrarunner, meaning she competes at distances longer than a marathon, Clare Gallagher has tackled plenty of challenges, from mountains to heat.
But none have been as much of a threat to her career as the U.S. West's worsening forest fires which, fueled ...	

		The Bank of Japan began a two-day policy meeting Monday amid market expectations that it will strengthen its commitment to keeping interest rates ultralow to prevent a surge in the yen following a potential rate cut in the United States later this week.

But some ...	

		Rising tensions in the South China Sea and the fallout from the U.S.-China trade war are set to dominate talks this week as top diplomats converge in Bangkok for a key Southeast Asia summit.

U.S. Secretary of State Michael Pompeo will be joined at the ...	
China defense white paper singles out Japan over security shift and blasts U.S. for undermining global stability
Foul play suspected in car crash that left India teen, who accused politician of rape, fighting for her life

		Mankind will have used up its allowance of natural resources such as water, soil and clean air for all of 2019 by Monday, a report said.
The so-called Earth Overshoot Day has moved up by two months over the past 20 years and this year's ...	
Japan's return to commercial whaling brings criticism from conservationists and praise from industry players

		Following its withdrawal from the International Whaling Commission, Japan will resume commercial whaling within the country’s exclusive economic zone.	
The Kyoto Prefectural Police have finished identifying all 34 of the people killed in last week's arson attack on a Kyoto Animation Co. studio through DNA tests and plan to reveal their names soon, investigative sources said Thursday.

The 34 staff members of the company, also known as KyoAni, ...
The death toll in last week's arson attack on a Kyoto Animation Co. studio rose to 35 Saturday after a man being treated at a hospital died, police said the same day.
Some of the people injured in the incident are still hospitalized. The police have not released the identities of any victims.
Inv...
With a continuously changing landscape around Tokyo's Shibuya Station amid a massive redevelopment project, another familiar face will be saying goodbye next year.

Tokyu Department Store Co. announced Monday that it will close down its 85-year-old Toyoko outlet that is directly connected to th...
An earthquake registering a magnitude 6.5 struck off the coast of Mie Prefecture around 3:30 a.m. Sunday, the Meteorological Agency reported.

Occurring at a depth of 420 km, the quake was still felt in the Kanto area, where it registered a 3 on the Japanese seismic intensity scale of 7.

No ...
South Korea tried to bring international pressure to bear on Japan by airing its complaint regarding Tokyo's tightened export controls at the World Trade Organization (WTO) on Wednesday, but the move failed to rally international opposition to the move.

At the meeting before the General Counci...