He said Labour’s programme for government would be “about reducing inequality in Britain and about investing in good-quality, sustainable jobs for the future through the green energy revolution”.
However, some Labour MPs are increasingly worried about the threat of the Liberal Democrats being more unequivocally committed to remaining in the EU if there is a quick election called by Johnson to win a mandate for taking the UK out by 31 October.
Neil Coyle, a Labour MP in Bermondsey and Old Southwark, a former Lib Dem seat, highlighted a Mail on Sunday/Deltapoll survey suggesting Labour would do better against Johnson without Corbyn as leader.
“Labour member? Want the end of austerity? Want to transform lives from within government? Want to end food bank use, homelessness, poverty? Then we need to change one key thing... People do not need to suffer Johnson’s rightwing regime,” he tweeted.
Corbyn said Labour would campaign for a second referendum and to remain in the EU if Johnson was proposing a no-deal Brexit. But he said the party would “reopen talks with the EU” about a Brexit deal if it won an election in comments that suggest the party would not necessarily campaign in favour of remain in a second referendum.
Asked personally whether he would prefer to remain in the EU or to leave with a Labour-backed deal, Corbyn declined to make a choice.
“Investment, jobs, trade and equality, both in or out of the EU. I want those things,” he said. “What we proposed was actually a very credible deal. A bespoke customs union with the EU and the trade arrangements would have achieved those things. It didn’t go through parliament, that was the problem.
“My issue is also uniting people around the country. My party is the only one that had significant numbers of people who voted both remain and leave. We want to bring people together which is why I spent an awful lot of time listening to people with divergent views and we came up with the proposals which I put to the national executive and our party. Leadership comes from listening.”
Labour shied away from calling a vote on Johnson just before parliament broke up for the summer, because Conservative rebels wanted to give the new prime minister a chance to come up with a plan to avoid a no-deal Brexit.
But with Johnson ramping up no-deal preparations, speculation about the likelihood of an election is increasing.
“We are now in a situation where many people will react with horror against what Johnson plans to do – defying parliament to take Britain out of the EU without a deal to safeguard our trade and jobs – but have no faith in Corbyn’s desire or ability to block this,” he told Alain Elkann for La Stampa and other European newspapers.
“Corbyn is not the leader that Labour needs at this time. He cannot deliver. Even his supporters are realising this. We need an alternative who can stand up to Johnson and lead the country against the disaster which is in the making.”
John McDonnell’s bold policies will be of little use if Labour cannot win an election, says Guardian columnist Polly Toynbee