
Vegan restaurants are closing across the UK because not enough people follow the diet to sustain them, analysis finds

While there was a much-publicised vegan "boom" over the last two years, with chain restaurants launching animal product-free dishes, outlets which serve only plant-based food have struggled.
Kate Nicholls, Chief Executive of UK Hospitality - which represents the restaurant, bar and hotel sector - said some vegan restaurants could be struggling because they don't appeal to the wider market.
She said: "Although veganism is gaining prominence and demand for vegan products seems to have soared, actually only a very small percentage of people identify as vegans, just 1.16 per cent in 2018 according to The Vegan Society.
"Other figures show that around 21 per cent identify as flexitarian so, although they may be looking to reduce meat consumption, they don't identify as vegan and choice is still a major issue.
"By offering exclusively vegan food, some venues may have made it more difficult for themselves to reach the majority of customers."
Miami Burger - which sold 100 per cent vegan burgers - has closed in Reading after only opening in January.
"Three months in we were getting a very loyal base of customers, but it was too narrow to sustain the very large rent.
"Several months ago we realised we're not getting the numbers we needed. I'd like to say thanks to our very loyal customers. Unfortunately there wasn't enough of them to cover the costs."
A spokesman for The Vegan Society said: "Veganism has entered the mainstream, which may mean some independent businesses have sadly had to close as large companies are catering for vegans better and taking a big chunk of the profit.
"Once if vegans wanted a choice of interesting dishes they and their non-vegan dining companions would have had to go to a vegan restaurant.
"But now they can all eat out at Wagamamas or a pizza chain or an independent pub or restaurant that realises that it makes sense to cater well for vegans. "
Put police in the dock over Nick investigation for 'unlawful' searches of VIP homes, former judge says
We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future.