Documents obtained under Queensland freedom of information laws show the state Department of Environment and Science believed the Darling Downs miner had committed a “major” breach of environmental laws.
A formal “decision memo” detailed that the mine had conducted exploration drilling activities – including drilling at 27 sites and prepping 41 more – on land not designated for mining activity.
“The impact of the offence is major due to the high level of public concern regarding the New Acland coalmine (and the) risk of temporary impact to the environment,” the decision memo stated.
The memo showed the department believed that the $3,152 fine – a 20th of the maximum fine for a single infringement – would serve as a deterrent. The company’s parent New Hope Group made $160m in after-tax profit in the six months to January 2019.
Details of the investigation’s findings and the fine were never made public – by the state or the miner – and have been uncovered in a tranche of documents obtained by the environmental group Lock the Gate.
A Lock the Gate Queensland spokeswoman, Ellie Smith, said: “This latest paltry fine, kept secret by the department, will do nothing to stop New Hope’s irresponsible behaviour.”
The documents detail how New Hope Group had increased production at the mine to meet supply contracts, and that as a result blasting and loading operations were being conducted with 200 metres of adjacent landholders.
During state estimates hearings last week, the Queensland mines minister, Anthony Lynham, said a decision on a water licence would be made by the end of September, but he gave no timeline for the final approval of a mining lease. Lock the Gate argues that should not be granted until all legal processes are completed.
The $3,152 fine for illegal drilling related to exploratory bores within the boundaries of the company’s operational mining leases, but outside the area designated for mining activity in the mine’s plan of operations. The documents show New Acland argued that its plan of operations noted that exploration drilling would occur, and that it was “overly restrictive and pedantic” to be required to identify precise locations.
The department’s decision memo said the breach of the Environmental Protection Act was “indisputable”.
Smith said the miner’s activities were having a detrimental impact on farmers and local residents. “The people of Oakey and Jondaryan are fed up, and are worried that is the New Acland stage three expansion goes ahead, local businesses will go into terminal decline.”
A farmer from nearby Mount Darry, Desley Spies, said: “New Hope is treating the farmers of our region very poorly, despite the fact we produce food and fibre here on the Darling Downs which Queensland relies on.
“The farming land around Oakey is classed in the top 1.5% in Queensland. It is madness that it should be destroyed for the sake of a temporary coalmine.”