We use cookies to improve our service for you. You can find more information in our data protection declaration.
Police have once again fired tear gas at protesters, the latest clashes in a weekslong political standoff. Authorities banned a rally through a popular tourist district, so protesters took off in opposite directions.
Hong Kong police on Sunday charged at demonstrators and fired several rounds of tear gas as thousands of people occupied a major street near a police station and Beijing's liaison office.
Television images showed riot police launching multiple volleys of the chemical near what is known as the Central Government Liaison Office as they sought to contain the latest public protests in the semiautonomous Chinese territory.
Sunday's main rally was initially scheduled to move through Sheung Wan, a historic district popular with tourists, where riot police previously used tear gas against protesters. 
But authorities rejected the route, prompting people to set off in opposite directions. Some headed towards a major shopping district, where they set up barricades to block off the area, and others towards the police station. 
Many of the black-shirted protesters shouted the slogans "Reclaim Hong Kong" and "Down with the evil bill," referencing a recently shelved proposal that would have allowed the extradition of suspects to mainland China for trial.
The rallies, which first erupted last month in opposition to the bill, have brought millions of residents onto the streets. They have since morphed into a much broader political campaign for democratic reforms in the former British colony amid concerns that China is tightening its grip on power.
The unrest is one of the biggest political crises in Hong Kong's modern history and has become a major headache for the territory's pro-Beijing leadership.
Democracy activist Joshua Wong told DW's Mathias Bölinger that the anti-government protests would continue despite police attempts to stop them, and that the territory's government and Beijing were facing a "summer of discontent."
"Calls for democracy will never stop," he said, adding that Hong Kong's leader must be appointed by the people of Hong Kong and not by Beijing. 
Those attacks further raised tensions between the government and protesters, some of whom claim the police turned a blind eye to the violence.
Hong Kong police have also faced criticism for what human rights group Amnesty International called a "heavy-handed" response during Saturday's rally, as well as their use of tear gas and rubber bullets during previous protests.
Despite widespread support, the protests have concerned Hong Kong residents who fear they are damaging the city's economy and global reputation.
Britain handed Hong Kong to China in 1997 as part of an agreement that included Beijing's pledge to respect the territory's semiautonomous status until 2047.
Local airline workers joined the demonstrators, who convened in the main arrivals area. They intend to continue demonstrating on Hong Kong streets this weekend, despite a government ban. (26.07.2019)
  
The people of semiautonomous Hong Kong are right to be concerned about China's government. The FAZ journalist Peter Sturm explores the mainland's potential military threat to the territory in this guest commentary. (27.07.2019)
  
One man has been arrested after "very powerful" explosives were found at a storage unit used by a pro-independence group. Weeks of sometimes violent protests spurred a fresh rally calling on police to restore order. (20.07.2019)
  
Media in Hong Kong have released video footage showing masked assailants attacking commuters in a subway station. For a seventh weekend, thousands demanded more autonomy from China as police fired tear gas at protesters. (22.07.2019)
  
After dozens of protesters were beaten by a mob at a train station, experts are warning that the escalating violence between opposing camps could become an ongoing threat to stability and the rule of law in Hong Kong. (22.07.2019)
  
One of the largest social movements in Hong Kong's history has also fueled more anti-Beijing sentiment in Taiwan. Do the protests serve as a warning for Taipei as it considers the future of relations with mainland China? 