Some parts of this page are not supported on your current browser version. Please upgrade your browser to the latest version.
Giridih (Jharkhand) [India], July 23 (ANI): Two women and one man were forced to drink urine by five locals, on 'suspicion' of practising witchcraft. Police have arrested four accused involved in this case.
The accused persons have been identified as Shanti Devi, Heeriya Devi, Hari Das, Veera Das and Parmeshwar Das. Police are still searching for the absconding accused, Parmeshwar.
"We have arrested two women and two men in this case. A case has been registered in this case. One accused is absconding and we will be arresting him at the soonest," Adikant Mehto, a police official told ANI.
Daughter of the victim while speaking to ANI said: "The five accused attacked my mother, father and aunt. They suspected that my family members are practising witchcraft and later they forced them to drink urine due to their superstitious belief. The accused hit my mother so brutally that she lost consciousness and fainted."
"They locked us inside our house and threatened us that if we try to come outside they will kill us," she added.
The matter came into light when the video of the entire incident went viral on social media platforms. On July 16, one of the victims went outside her house when the accused persons forcefully held and attacked her.
Later, they took the victim inside her place and attacked her family members on "suspicion" of practising witchcraft. The family members were beaten the whole night and later they were forced to drink urine in the morning.
The victims come from a financially weaker background and to earn their living they wash utensils in the nearby households in their village. (ANI)
A social media user took to Twitter sharing a horrifying incident which his friend experienced. The user shared that a rickshaw driver was masturbating while looking at his friend in the rearview mirror.
Mumbai: Anand Mahindra, Executive Chairman of Mahindra and Mahindra Limited, left netizens in splits on Monday when, asked by his wife to cook, posted photo of a man ironing chapati on Twitter, trying to convince his wife he is not a fit person for the task.  My wife asked me if I wanted to help cook some interesting dishes.  Mahindra last week said he would ban plastic bottles from corporate boardrooms, after a Twitter user pointed them out in a photo of a meeting shared by him.
Cafe Coffee Day owner VG Siddhartha has gone missing. He went missing from near a river off Mangaluru in Karnataka. A massive search operation has been launched to trace the businessman. Follow live updates here
Two pythons weighing around 40 kgs were mating on the ceiling of the couple's house. As they got into the heat of the moment, the ceiling wall could not bear the weight and started cracking. The snakes were about 5 metre long scrub pythons. Veteran snake catcher Hagan said that snakes often go to roof spaces in search of mating places
VG Siddhartha Missing LIVE updates: As part of the ongoing investigation into the disappearance of business tycoon VG Siddhartha on Tuesday, the Karnataka Police searched the premises of his coffee estate in Mudigere in Karnataka. Local reports also said that the employees working at the estate are also being questioned in the probe.
Parliament LIVE Updates: Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad is introducting The Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Bill, 2019. "Today is a historic day. Although this practice has been banned in many Islamic countries, India which is a secular country hasn't been able to ban the practice of Triple Talaq," Prasad says.
The rupee opened on a weak note and declined by 4 paise to 68.79 against the US dollar in opening trade on Tuesday, amid sustained foreign fund outflows and rising crude oil prices.
Horoscope Today, July 30, 2019: Aquarius, I don't see any real chance of misunderstandings, mistakes or blunders.
WWE superstars from the red brand of WWE are indeed looking to make a point by showing their presence and creating an impact on the show. Last week episode of Monday Night Raw (July 22, 2019) ended in celebration, this week we saw a different end where wrestlers like Roman Reigns, The Usos, Cedric Alexander brawled with Samoa Joe, Drew McIntyre. There is huge rivalry going on between Samoa Joe and Roman Reigns which is known as Samoan Summit.
A platform ticket is a type of ticket issued by the railways, which can be bought from a railway station’s ticket counter before entering a platform.
Mandira Bedi spent some quality time in the Maldives. The actor shared photos from her vacation on Instagram.
The Jammu-Srinagar national highway on Sunday was closed for the vehicular movement due to shooting stones between Rambhan-Banihal. Due to this, the ongoing Amarnath Yatra was also suspended.
All the five Superintendents of Police (SPs) in Srinagar district have been asked to collect details about mosques and the ideological affiliations of their management, a development which added to the fear and speculation about abrogation of Articles 35A and 370.
A job posting for Google CEO Sundar Pichai's replacement recently appeared on LinkedIn, a platform popular with job hunters.
A man in Uttar Pradesh's Etah bit a snake into pieces after it bit him. The man was in an intoxicated condition. Dr NP Singh, Etah, says, "His condition is serious. He has been referred to another hospital."
Sudhir Makkar a.k.a 'Golden Baba' wore gold ornaments weighing 16 kilo to the annual yatra, citing health reasons for the reduction from last year.
Catch the latest news in Tamil Nadu and Chennai as we bring you live updates on water scarcity, traffic, Tamil Nadu politics, Tamil movie releases, weather forecasts, rains, local and civic issues and events near you in Chennai.
Most of the people take Liquiprin, Panadol, or Tylenol for stomach pain but the prescription of a Jharkhand patient is bizarrely different! A government hospital doctor had allegedly prescribed condom to a woman who was suffering from stomach ache.
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed's offer was disclosed late Friday in a letter filed in the US District Court in Manhattan by lawyers representing individuals and businesses seeking billions of dollars in damages.
With the policy of an iron fist for terrorism in the velvet glove of "vikas and vishwas" (development and trust), Home Minister Amit Shah is formulating measures to deal with the two challenges with a core team that includes some new and some old faces.
Various pictures of half-naked commuters have surfaced the internet over the past week when Britain, along with France, Belgium, Germany, and the Netherlands experienced record-smashing temperature ever on Thursday.
Our photographer spotted Karisma Kapoor, Shraddha Kapoor, Khushi Kapoor, Parineeti Chopra, Sidharth Malhotra, Sachin Tendulkar, and a few others in Mumbai today.
Mumbai Man Killed by 8 People During His Birthday Celebration in Ghatkopar, Police Suspect Role of Friends
Mumbai Auto Driver Masturbates Looking at Female Passenger in Rear-View Mirror, Friend Tweets to Mumbai Police
CCD Owner VG Siddhartha Missing Live Updates: Fought for long, he wrote in last letter; rain stops search ops
CCD founder VG Siddhartha missing LIVE Updates: Karnataka Police search premises of businessman's coffee estate in Mudigere, quiz plantation workers
Parliament LIVE updates: Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi bats for Uniform Civil Code in Rajya Sabha while supporting triple talaq bill
Govinda Reveals Why He Won't Work With Director David Dhawan Ever Again, Says 'Even His Son Varun Dhawan Won't Do 17 Films With Him'
Indian Railways allows you to board a train with a platform ticket provided you have a guard's certificate: Here's how
Priyanka Chopra’s Birthday Cake Cost Rs 3.5 Lakh and Here Is What Else You Can Do with That Money in India