Canadian police have released new CCTV footage of Bryer Schmegelsky and Kam McLeod, the two teenagers wanted in connection with three murders, including that of Australian man Lucas Fowler.
In the footage, Bryer Schmegelsky and Kam McLeod are seen casually walking around a store in Meadow Lake, Saskatchewan
Canadian police are going door-to-door in a search for the two, centred around the town of Gillam in Manitoba
 The bodies of Lucas Fowler, 23, and Chynna Deese, 24, were discovered on a highway in British Columbia on July 15
In the footage released by police on Friday (local time), the two are seen casually walking around a store in Meadow Lake, in the Canadian province of Saskatchewan.
The Royal Canadian Mounted Police, known colloquially as Mounties, said the footage was shot on July 21, six days after the bodies of Sydney man Mr Fowler, 23, and his American girlfriend Chynna Deese, 24, were discovered on a highway in British Columbia.
The Mounties are using helicopters and tracker dogs to search for Mr Schmegelsky and Mr McLeod, and have also called in air support from the Canadian military.
The hunt for the accused murderers has since shifted 1,300 kilometres east to the remote rural town of Gillam in the province of Manitoba.
The search has been centred on Gillam since the discovery nearby of a burnt-out vehicle in which Mr Schmegelsky and Mr McLeod had been travelling.
Police are now going door-to-door in the town and say they want to speak to any members of the public who may have unwittingly helped the pair.
"It is possible that someone may not have been aware of who they were providing assistance to and may now be hesitant to come forward," 
Mr Schmegelsky, 18, and Mr McLeod, 19, have been charged with second-degree murder over the death of Leonard Dyck, 64, whose body was found two kilometres from the pair's burnt-out ute on July 19.
ABC teams share the story behind the story and insights into the making of digital, TV and radio content.
About a year ago, I moved into a Sydney apartment with one of my friends. Turns out we've been at risk this entire time. And because we're renting this place, no one bothered to tell us, writes Avani Dias.
The latest Household, Income and Labour Dynamics Survey explains why people feel they are going backwards despite official statistics.
Shayna Jack is the not the first athlete to point to a secondary source after a positive drug test, but experts say the warnings are very clear when it comes to athletes taking sports supplements.
Most Republicans do not believe Mr Trump is a racist. This is why his recent remarks are so troubling to me, to people of colour and to many Trump supporters throughout the country.
The race is on to lure Tim Kelly back to WA, but have West Coast priced themselves out of the contest?
This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.