Coalition blacklisted for third year over killing and wounding of 729 children but critics say measure is not enough.
UN report says Saudi-led coalition in Yemen killed or wounded 729 children in 2018, nearly half of all child casualties in the country [File: Naif Rahma/Reuters]
The figure accounts for nearly half of the total child casualties in the war-torn and impoverished country. 
The UN said it verified 1,689 child casualties in Yemen last year, including the killing of 576 and the maiming of 1,113.   
The toll was "often a result of attacks in densely populated areas and against civilian objects, including schools and hospitals", Guterres said.
"In Afghanistan, the number of child casualties remained the highest such number in the present report (3,062) and children accounted for 28 percent of all civilian casualties," the report said.
"In the Syrian Arab Republic, air strikes, barrel bombs and cluster munitions resulted in 1,854 child casualties."
In 2017, Guterres sought to reduce the controversy by splitting the blacklist into two categories. One lists parties that have put in place measures to protect children and the other includes parties that have not. 
In relation to Yemen, the report named the Saudi-UAE-led military coalition and Yemeni government forces on the first list. The Houthis, pro-Yemen government militia, the Security Belt Forces, and al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula on the second list.
The Saudi-UAE-led coalition intervened in Yemen in 2015 to restore the internationally recognised government of President Abd-Rabbu Hadi Mansour, who was swept from power by the Houthi rebels the previous year.
"They have been committing appalling atrocities against children for years now since 2015. To include them year after year as a coalition that is improving makes a mockery of it. Because if they're improving, why aren't they getting off the list?"
Saudi UN Ambassador Abdallah al-Mouallimi told Reuters news agency that the report acknowledged steps taken by the coalition to safeguard children, noting that "every child's life is precious". But he also questioned the sourcing and accuracy of the report, describing the numbers as "exaggerated". 
Al Jazeera's diplomatic editor James Bays said the report was seen as a "political hot potato" from countries not wanting to be included on the list.
He added that it was "pretty clear ... from reading this report that there's been political pressure again".