
                Related video: UK heatwave: Mercury soars to new July high as Britain swelters
              
Human body ‘close to thermal limits’ due to extreme heatwaves caused by climate change, scientist says
Record-breaking heat has swept through Europe this week with temperatures topping 40C in a number of countries. 
However, in places such as South Asia and the Persian Gulf, people are already enduring temperatures reaching up to 54C. 
When air temperature exceeds 35C, the body relies on sweating to keep core temperatures at a safe level. However, when the “wet bulb” temperature – which reflects the ability of moisture to evaporate – reaches 35C, this system no longer works.
“The wet bulb temperature includes the cooling effect of water evaporating from the thermometer, and so is normally much lower than the normal (“dry bulb”) temperature reported in weather forecasts,” Dr Matthews wrote.
Hundreds of people at the beach in Bournemouth, as the UK could encounter the hottest July day on record
Ireland's players in a drinks break during the second day of the test match against England at Lord's
Kadie Lane, 10, cools off in the fountain at Alnwick Gardens. The UK is bracing itself for what could be its hottest ever day after lightning storms triggered fires and rail disruption
American Bulldog Finlay, receiving urgent cooling treatment at PDSA's Pet Hospital, after was left fighting for his life after his body temperature soared to a life-threatening 42.2C (108F) during recent hot weather
Freddie Ward jumps into the water at Ilkley outdoor pool and lido in West Yorkshire as the UK is expected to edge towards its hottest ever July day
Hundreds of people at the beach in Bournemouth, as the UK could encounter the hottest July day on record
Ireland's players in a drinks break during the second day of the test match against England at Lord's
Kadie Lane, 10, cools off in the fountain at Alnwick Gardens. The UK is bracing itself for what could be its hottest ever day after lightning storms triggered fires and rail disruption
American Bulldog Finlay, receiving urgent cooling treatment at PDSA's Pet Hospital, after was left fighting for his life after his body temperature soared to a life-threatening 42.2C (108F) during recent hot weather
Freddie Ward jumps into the water at Ilkley outdoor pool and lido in West Yorkshire as the UK is expected to edge towards its hottest ever July day
“Once this wet bulb temperature threshold is crossed, the air is so full of water vapour that sweat no longer evaporates,” he said.
“Without the means to dissipate heat, our core temperature rises, irrespective of how much water we drink, how much shade we seek, or how much rest we take,” he explained. 
Some areas – which are among the most densely populated on Earth – could pass this threshold by the end of the century, according to Dr Matthews.
If electricity can be maintained, living in chronically heat-stressed conditions may be possible but a power outage could be catastrophic. 
Mega blackouts sometimes follow powerful tropical cyclones. Researchers found that dangerously hot temperatures during a period with no electricity could have catastrophic consequences.
“We looked at tropical cyclones, which have already caused the biggest blackouts on Earth, with the months-long power failure in Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria among the most serious,” Dr Matthews wrote.

            UK heatwave: Thousands of passengers disrupted as flights and trains cancelled due to extreme temperatures
        
“We found that as the climate warms, it becomes ever more likely that these powerful cyclones would be followed by dangerous heat, and that such compound hazards would be expected every year if global warming reaches 4C. 
“During the emergency response to a tropical cyclone, keeping people cool would have to be as much a priority as providing clean drinking water.”
Heat-stressed countries are likely to see the largest absolute increases in humid-heat and they are often the least well-prepared to deal with the hazard. This could drive mass migration, which would make heat a worldwide issue – even for countries that are not experiencing scorching temperatures. 
Dr Matthews wrote: “The challenges ahead are stark. Adaptation has its limits. We must therefore maintain our global perspective on heat and pursue a global response, slashing greenhouse gas emissions to keep to the Paris warming limits. 
Swearing, personal abuse, racism, sexism, homophobia and other discriminatory or inciteful
                      language is not acceptable
Swearing, personal abuse, racism, sexism, homophobia and other discriminatory or inciteful
                      language is not acceptable
Want to discuss real-world problems, be involved in the most engaging discussions and hear from the
        journalists? Try Independent Minds free for 1 month. 
Independent Minds Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Minds.
      It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss
      real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when
      they can to create a true meeting of independent minds. The most insightful comments on all subjects
      will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies
      to your comment.
    

      The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to
      Independent Minds. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post
      the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please
      continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
    