Four hackers have been arrested this week on suspicion of breaking into more than 1,000 Telegram accounts.
Four suspects have been arrested in Brazil this week for hacking into over 1,000 Telegram accounts, including some owned by Brazilian government officials, such as Brazil President Jair Bolsonaro, Justice Minister Sergio Moro, and Economy Minister Paulo Guedes.
Other lower-ranking politicians such as congresswoman Joice Hasselmann, a key ally of President Bolsonaro and Minister Moro, also claimed to have been targeted earlier this week.
According to court documents, the four used a relatively unknown hacking trick to bind the victims' Telegram accounts to their phones.
Local media reported that the hackers used access to the accounts to send spam messages with malicious links to users' contacts. However, the group also appears to have targeted and hijacked accounts of local politicians, from where they are believed to have exfiltrated personal messages.
Brazilian authorities claim that some of the messages have made their way to journalists at The Intercept following the hacking of Justice minister Sergio Moro, who claims that took place on 5 June.
Moro, who is the one who set the Operation Car Wash investigation underway, claimed that the messages did not show any wrongdoing, and were just advice for the prosecutor who took over in the case.
A criminal inquiry was set into motion, either way. The four arrests announced this week are the result of the Brazilian government's investigation into the source of those leaks.
The names of the four alleged hackers are Danilo Cristiano Marquez (33), Walter Delgatti Neto (30), Judy Gustavo Henrique Elias Santos (28), and Suelen Priscilla de Oliveira (25) -- Santos' wife.
The four were arrested on a temporary five-day warrant, but have not been officially charged. Investigators said they found around 600,000 Brazilian reals (~$160,000) in one of the hacker's bank accounts, which the suspect couldn't justify based on their income.
"We are not newbie hackers, the [voicemail hack] is not consistent with our way of operating - we access Telegram with the objective of extracting conversations and do justice, bringing the truth out to people," it added.
Most instant messaging (IM) services today allow users to receive one-time passcodes via SMS, but also as a voice message.
The general idea behind this trick is that users of instant messaging apps who have voicemail enabled for their phone numbers are at risk if they don't change the voicemail account's default password, which in most cases tends to be either 0000 or 1234.
Bar-Zik discovered that if the phone number is busy with another call, or if the user doesn't answer his phone three times in a row, the one-time passcode delivered via voice message is eventually rerouted to the user's voicemail account.
According to Brazilian authorities, the four hackers installed Telegram apps on their phones, but entered the phone number of high-profile politicians when authenticating.
They requested voice mail messages for the authentication process, while calling the targets' phones, to ensure the one-time passcode landed in the voicemail account.
The four then used VoIP providers to mimick the target's phone number, called the telco's voicemail service, used a default password to access the target's voicemail account, retrieved the one-time passcode, and bound the victim's Telegram account to their device --hence, gaining access to the account and its message history.
This marks the first time this voicemail hijacking trick has been used against high-profile targets. The technique hasn't been used widely used by criminal groups until now.
Amid the fallout over the leaked messages, local reports suggest President Bolsonaro is finally considering to use an encrypted mobile phone provided by the Brazilian Intelligence Agency (Abin).

									
																			Security may not be on its list of attributes, but the company's co-founder and chief product officer assures all systems are now secure.
																	

									
																																																														Scytl
																																																								has
																																																								published
																																																								components
																																																								of
																																																								the
																																																								source
																																																								code
																																																								used
																																																								by
																																																								the
																																																								NSW
																																																								Electoral
																																																								Commission
																																																								following
																																																								claims
																																																								there
																																																								were
																																																								two
																																																								flaws
																																																								in
																																																								the
																																																								same
																																																								system
																																																								used
																																																								in
																																																								Switzerland.
																																											...
																	

									
																			Over 1 million Canadian social insurance numbers accessed in breach.
																	

									
																																																														Ransomware
																																																								infection
																																																								impacted
																																																								police
																																																								car
																																																								laptops
																																																								for
																																																								the
																																																								Georgia
																																																								State
																																																								Patrol,
																																																								Georgia
																																																								Capitol
																																																								Police,
																																																								and
																																																								the
																																																								Georgia
																																																								Motor
																																																								Carrier
																																																								Compliance
																																																								Division.
																																											...
																	

									
																			As "Mr. Bitcoin" seems destined to be extradited to Russia, US authorities are trying to recover some of BTC-e's funds in a last ditch effort.
																	

									
																			Just over one million computers in the NHS are still using Windows 7.
																	

									
																																																														Reviewing
																																																								the
																																																								security
																																																								implications
																																																								of
																																																								smart
																																																								cities
																																																								and
																																																								offering
																																																								guidance
																																																								on
																																																								how
																																																								security
																																																								and
																																																								risk
																																																								professionals
																																																								should
																																																								address
																																																								and
																																																								overcome
																																																								these
																																																								potential
																																																								security
																																																								and
																																																								privacy
																																																																...
																	

									
																																																														In
																																																								these
																																																								digital
																																																								times,
																																																								it
																																																								is
																																																								almost
																																																								impossible
																																																								to
																																																								raise
																																																								a
																																																								child
																																																								without
																																																								exposing
																																																								them
																																																								to
																																																								technology
																																																								at
																																																								a
																																																								very
																																																								early
																																																								age.
																																																								So
																																																								how
																																																								do
																																																								21st
																																																								century
																																																								parents
																																																								manage
																																																								the
																																																								limits
																																																								on
																																																								technology
																																																																																																																															...
																	

									
																			Security updates are out, but patching will most likely take months, if not years.
																	