Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification.
Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification.

                                                    WPA Pool/Getty Images
                                            
 The ex-chancellor reportedly held a private meeting with Shadow Brexit Secretary Sir Keir Starmer on Wednesday.     
 Philip Hammond is reportedly plotting with the Labour Party and other Members of Parliament opposed to a no-deal Brexit to stop Boris Johnson taking the United Kingdom out of the European without a deal. 
 The report adds that Hammond and Starmer agreed to work together and with other senior MPs opposed to a no-deal exit, like Conservatives Oliver Letwin and Dominic Grieve, in finding ways to stop it happening in October. 
 Prime Minister Johnson has made leaving the EU on October 31 the core pledge of his premiership, even if it means doing so without a deal. During his leadership campaign, he described it as "do or die." 
 He told MPs this week that if the EU doesn't agree to remove the Northern Irish backstop from the Withdrawal Agreement, then he would abandon the deal negotiated by Theresa May, and leave without an agreement.                                                                                                         
 This week Johnson appointed Conservative MPs to senior positions of his Cabinet who strongly advocate leaving the EU without a deal if necessary. They include Home Secretary Priti Patel and Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab. 
 Hammond has been a vocal opponent of a no-deal Brexit, particularly in his final weeks as Theresa May's chancellor.                                                                                                         
 During the Conservative leadership campaign, he warned Johnson and his rival Jeremy Hunt that a no-deal Brexit would leave them with no money to fulfill the various spending promised they had made. 
 The Office for Budget Responsibility (OBR) — which provides the government with independent economic analysis — warned earlier this month that a no-deal Brexit would likely push the UK into recession next year. 
 The OBR said that leaving the EU without a deal would cause UK economic growth to fall by two per cent by the end of 2020, and inflict a yearly £30 billion hit to public finances. 
 Hammond hinted on Tuesday that he could vote to bring down his own government in order to stop a no-deal Brexit.                                                                                                         
 "I would be wrong for the British government to seek to pursue no deal as a policy and I believe that it will be for the House of Commons, of which I will continue proudly to be a member, to ensure that that doesn't happen," he told MPs. 
 MPs on all sides of the House of Commons are engaged in ongoing discussions about how they can use legislation to stop Johnson forcing through a no-deal exit on October 31. 
 MPs involved in the discussions are set to initiate legislation in September once Parliament has returned from its summer recess. A former Conservative minister last week told Business Insider "we will find a way." 
voted to effectively prevent Johnson from suspending — or proroguing — Parliament in order to through a no-deal exit.

                    The SEC is stepping up scrutiny of mutual funds that have poured money into unicorns like WeWork and Airbnb
                

                    25 rising stars in venture capital who control millions of dollars in Silicon Valley and decide which startups will blow up
                

                    AI has the potential to radically transform financial services. But first banks need to get their data in order.
                

                    Consumers are tuning out ads more than ever. Big brands are betting AI can help them break through with better targeting and personalization.
                

                    AI is going to change your career. IBM is showing how that can be a good thing.
                
Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification.