Dogs, armed officers, helicopters and drones sent to York Landing in Manitoba, 80km from remote town of Gillam where pair were sighted previously
Canadian police have deployed search teams, helicopters, dogs and drones to York Landing, Manitoba, in pursuit of fugitives Kam McLeod, 19, and Bryer Schmegelsky, 18, after the pair were spotted by members of an indigenous patrol group.
The fugitives were seen by members of the Bear Clan Patrol, who are based in the provincial capital of Winnipeg. The group has been assisting community members in the Fox Lake Cree Nation, which is next door to the remote community of Gillam, where the search has been focused.
“Officers searched the York Landing area throughout the night and continue their efforts today,” RCMP Manitoba spokesperson Julie Courchaine said midday on Monday.
The RCMP have not yet confirmed if the pair spotted by Bear Clan Patrol are McLeod and Schmegelsky, who are suspected of killing Australian Lucas Fowler, 23, and US citizen Chynna Deese, 24, and have been charged with the death of Canadian, Leonard Dyck, 64.
As of 11pm local time, RCMP reported that the two men had still not been found and warned residents to stay indoors.
“All efforts are being made in York Landing to apprehend two individuals matching the description of the suspects. The safety of community members is our priority. We remind residents to stay inside and check all doors & windows to ensure they are closed and locked,” tweeted RCMP Manitoba.
The elected chief of York Factory First Nation, Leroy Constant, reported that the RCMP would remain on the scene with a helicopter, dogs and emergency response team overnight, and said while ground searches were continuing, heavy winds were limiting helicopters and drones.
Multiple RCMP resources are being sent to York Landing, MB, to investigate a tip that the two suspects are possibly in, or near, the community. A heavy police presence can be expected in the area. We will continue to update you as information becomes available.
RCMP have asked community members to not post photos or otherwise distribute the location of officers on social media. They have not released any information about how the suspects may be armed, but both Fowler and Deese were shot.
The community of York Landing is approximately 11 sq km and has a population of 443 people, according to the 2016 census, and about 116 dwellings. It sits on the eastern bank of the Nelson River, which flows into Hudson’s Bay.
The pair were reportedly spotted scavenging food out of a dump by members of the indigenous volunteer group Bear Clan Patrol.
 The last confirmed sighting of the pair was in Gillam, which is why police have focussed their resources on the community, but in recent days RCMP have said McLeod and Schmegelsky might have left the community in disguise with the aid of an unknowing resident.
Police have been searching cottages, cabins and waterways. They have received over 200 tips in the past five days. A police statement reminded people not to approach the teens if they are spotted.