Opposition politicians called Saturday’s protest in response to a decision not to allow a number of independent candidates to stand in a September election to Moscow’s municipal parliament. Last weekend, the Russian capital saw the largest anti-government demonstration for years over the issue.
To stop crowds gathering outside the Moscow mayor’s offices on Saturday, police cordoned off whole sections of Tverskaya, one of Moscow’s main thoroughfares. Large groups of protesters tried to find a way to the mayoralty, winding through courtyards and side streets, and more often than not encountering police cordons. Police put the number of protesters at 3,500, but the real figure was likely much higher.
As of early evening, more than 630 people had been detained by police according to independent observers, a few of them violently. It was not immediately clear what charges, if any, police would bring against them.
From a loudspeaker, police shouted at the crowds that they were taking part in an unsanctioned demonstration, that they faced being held responsible for breaking the law, and that they were “blocking the way for fellow citizens”. Undeterred, groups of protesters chanted the same back at police.
“This is the end of Russia’s 30-year experiment with elections,” said Grigory Yavlinsky, a veteran Russian liberal politician, as he tried unsuccessfully to cross a police barrier and make his way to Tverskaya. Yavlinsky, who came third in the 2000 presidential election in which Putin first won the presidency, said that “with each year the elections are less and less real, but this is really the end”. He said it was unclear what the future of the protest movement holds.
Lyubov Sobol, a Navalny associate who wants to stand in one Moscow district, is currently on hunger strike and staged a sit-in at the Moscow electoral commission earlier this week. At one point she was carried out by guards, together with the sofa on which she was sitting, and she was arrested on her way to the protest on Saturday.
Now, authorities will again have to decide whether to step back or crack down, at a time when Putin’s ratings are slipping and his ruling United Russia party is widely despised. In recent months, the Kremlin has backed down when faced with public protests, mainly over local issues such as the construction of a new cathedral in a public square in the city of Yekaterinburg.
Putin has not yet commented on the protests. The Russian president, undeterred by any potential symbolic resonance, climbed into a miniature submarine as the police made arrests on Saturday and descended to the seabed in the Gulf of Finland to inspect the ruins of a second world war submarine.