Prime minister blasted for ‘terrible error of judgement’ in making Dominic Cummings – found in contempt of parliament - his aide
“What does that say about the prime minister’s attitude to parliament? It’s a terrible error of judgment.”
He will have access not just to parliament but to the inner sanctum of No 10. There are serious implications to that
Wollaston admitted there was no mechanism to enforce motions holding individuals in contempt of parliament. But members of the committee that originally summoned Cummings to give evidence say they want to recall him again, and have suggested a range of sanctions.
“Everyone who works in parliament has to go through a very stringent security procedure. How can someone who oversaw a campaign that is the subject of a serious criminal investigation pass that test? He will have access not just to parliament but to the inner sanctum of No 10. There are obvious and serious security implications to that.”
Ian Lucas, the MP for Wrexham, said the committee would look at recalling Cummings, but also said he hoped that parliament would consider cutting his salary. “Cummings is in contempt of parliament and parliament needs to express its dissatisfaction,” said Lucas.
“That should include the possibility of docking his salary. I’d like that to be an opposition day debate. He is a special adviser and will be being paid out of taxpayers’ money. I personally don’t think that should happen when he’s done everything he can to obstruct this very important parliamentary inquiry.”
“We are actually conducting a formal inquiry into the powers of parliament,” she said. “My personal view is that doing nothing is no longer an option. We have had several of these cases in the last few years, but we are in the process of taking evidence on what our options might be.”
In his new role at Downing Street Cummings appears to be getting Johnson on an election footing; the Conservative party Facebook page has fielded hundreds of ads since his appointment. Although they are spending relatively small amounts, the range of ads allow them to test voters’ responses and gather data on those who do interact with the advertisements.
Lucas said: “Johnson appears to be going for broke in a very dangerous way. The appointment of key members of the Vote Leave campaign to the cabinet and, especially, the appointment of Cummings shows complete contempt for the important and substantive work parliament has done to address these issues around technology and disinformation and the urgent need for electoral reform. This report has been acknowledged as important work everywhere but in Boris Johnson’s drawing room.”