We use cookies to improve our service for you. You can find more information in our data protection declaration.
Russian prosecutors decided to ban the pro-western Atlantic Council NGO after finding its activities pose a threat to Russia's "constitutional order." The NGO representatives say they were not informed about the move.
The US-based Atlantic Council has been listed as a "security threat" in Russia and is set to be banned, Russian prosecutors have said.
On Thursday, the prosecutors said the Atlantic Council's activities "pose a threat to fundamentals of constitutional order and security of the Russian federation."
The Atlantic Council chairman Frederick Kempe said they were aware of the reports on their ban, but had received no notice from the Russian state.
"Russian authorities have not informed us, either formally or informally, about this decision," Kempe said in a statement carried by Russian news agency Interfax on Friday.
The Atlantic Council was founded in 1961 to promote understanding among NATO member nations, and its headquarters are in currently in Washington DC.
The new US ambassador to Russia, Jon Huntsman, has presented his diplomatic credentials to Vladimir Putin in Moscow. He takes up the post at an especially contentious time in relations between the two countries. (03.10.2017)
  
The Open Society Foundation of billionaire George Soros says it will cease its operations in Turkey. The move comes after the Turkish president hit out at the Hungarian-born philanthropist. (26.11.2018)
  
A pro-Putin student activist has flagged the diabetics' association in the Russian city of Saratov, advising authorities to consider labeling the group as a "foreign agent." A court is now set to hear the case. (29.12.2017)
  
The environmental group Ecodefense is being targeted by the Russian authorities for refusing to comply with a law that was heavily criticized internationally. Now its director, Alexandra Korolyova, has fled to Germany. 
The Nord Stream 2 pipeline will run straight through the Baltic Sea, delivering Russian natural gas directly to Germany. For once, Democrats and Republicans in the US agree on something: The project is a really bad idea. 
The new US ambassador to Russia, Jon Huntsman, has presented his diplomatic credentials to Vladimir Putin in Moscow. He takes up the post at an especially contentious time in relations between the two countries. 