FILE PHOTO - The logo of  Korean Airlines is seen at its aviation shed in Incheon, South Korea, February 27, 2017.  REUTERS/Kim Hong-Ji 
Last month, Japan tightened controls of exports of high-tech materials to South Korea, in apparent retaliation for a South Korean court ruling over wartime forced labor. Such disputes have prompted a widespread boycott of Japanese products and services, from beer to clothes and travel in South Korea. 
The move added chaos to the airline and tourism industries, which were already grappling with rising competition and falling travel demand to Japan - a destination popular among younger tourists. 
Koreans are the second-largest travelers to Japan only after China, accounting for 24.2% of footfalls last year, according to data from Japan National Tourism Organisation. The number had tripled over the past five years, data showed. 
However, the number of Korean tourists to Japan dropped between January and May, even before the diplomatic row had set off. 
Korean Air Lines has been considering cutting off unprofitable routes between the two countries from mid-August because of rising supply and slowing demand faced even before the row, a company spokeswoman said, adding that the plan has not been finalised. 
“The price competition for Japan routes among domestic low-cost carriers have become too intense lately, making some routes unprofitable,” one of the sources said.  
Japan accounted for 25% of revenue for South Korea’s budget carriers, while the corresponding number for full-fledged airlines is about 10%, according to a report by Um Kyung-a, an analyst with Shinyoung Securities.   
An ANA spokeswoman also said, “We have not seen any significant impact on flights between South Korea and Japan and we plan to keep our regular schedule going forward.” 
Reporting by Hyunjoo Jin and Heekyong Yang; Additional reporting by Jamie Freed in SINGAPORE and Timothy Kelly in TOKYO; Editing by Muralikumar Anantharaman, Stephen Coates and Sherry Jacob-Phillips