Navalny, 43, was rushed to hospital on Sunday morning from jail where he is serving a 30-day sentence for violating tough protest laws, a day after police in Moscow detained over 1,000 people for an illegal demonstration which Navalny called for.
His spokeswoman Kira Yarmysh said Navalny had signs of an acute allergy with "severe swelling of the face and skin redness."
Doctors at the hospital treating him have yet to publicly disclose their diagnosis and the precise cause of his symptoms remains unknown.
But one doctor who has treated him in the past and was able to briefly speak to him and look at him through the crack of a door on Sunday said she could not rule out that he had been poisoned.
"We cannot rule out that toxic damage to the skin and mucous membranes by an unknown chemical substance was inflicted with the help of a 'third party'," Anastasia Vasilyeva, the doctor, wrote on Facebook.
Vasilyeva, who said Navalny had a rash on his upper body, skin lesions, and discharge from his eye, called for samples of Navalny's bed sheets, skin and hair to be tested for chemicals.
The Moscow hospital where Navalny's spokeswoman said he was being treated could not be reached for comment.
Separately, Navalny's lawyer, Olga Mikhailova, wrote on Facebook on Sunday evening that doctors did not know what was wrong with her client, but that she deemed his symptoms strange given that he had never suffered from allergies in the past.
Navalny suffered a serious chemical burn to his right eye in 2017 as a result of an assault. Doctors were able to restore his sight and save the eye.
He was jailed on Wednesday this week for 30 days for calling for Saturday's unauthorized march to protest against the exclusion of several opposition candidates from a local election later this year.
A spokeswoman for the U.S. Embassy in Moscow, Andrea Kalan, wrote on Twitter on Sunday that the large number of detentions in Moscow and the "use of disproportionate police force undermine rights of citizens to participate in the democratic process."
Police on Sunday night detained about 10 people, including journalists, who had gathered in front of the hospital where Navalny was being treated.
Navalny, a lawyer and anti-corruption activist, has served several stints in jail in recent years for organizing anti-government demonstrations.

			Siberian Wildfires Swell to Crimea-Sized Area, Authorities Say Extinguishing Them Is ‘Pointless’		

				Siberian Wildfires Swell to Crimea-Sized Area, Authorities Say Extinguishing Them Is ‘Pointless’			

				‘The Political Regime Against the People’: The Reactions to Moscow’s Election Protest and Crackdown			
One of the doctors who treated him said that the idea that the anti-corruption campaigner had been poisoned had "not been proven."
Goncharenko was given 25 days behind bars after displaying a giant inflated duck during an anti-election rally.
The Council of Europe has accused Moscow of violating Navalny's right to fair trial, demanding the authorities allow him to run in the 2018 Presidential...

								With your help, we can continue with our mission to keep you informed with breaking news, business analysis, thought-provoking opinions, the best of culture and insights into everyday life.
							