"It would have hit with over 30 times the energy of the atomic blast at Hiroshima," astronomer professor Alan Duffy told the Sydney Morning Herald. Duffy called the zooming space rock a "city killer."
Astronomers say it posed no immediate threat but they admit they had no idea the giant rock was headed our way, because it came from the direction of the sun.
There are 20,000 near-Earth asteroids and they do occasionally make an appearance. In 2013, one slammed into Russia, injuring 1,600 people.     
"All we have to do is change its speed a little faster or a little slower so that when it crosses Earth's orbit, it crosses either in front of us or behind us," said Dr. Lori Glaze, director of planetary science at NASA.

        The hacker got information including credit scores and balances plus the Social Security numbers of about 140,000 customers
      

        Police say Santino William Legan opened fire with a legally purchased AK-47-type assault rifle, killing a 6-year-old boy, 13-year-old girl and a 25-year-old man
      

        Many listeners couldn't get Katy Perry's hit "Dark Horse" out of their heads — that may have been because they had heard it before
      

        Scientists revealed an asteroid dubbed by some as a "city killer" came closer to the Earth than the moon this week
      

        Despite anonymous mother's viral tirade, the Magic Kingdom has been courting millennials for years—starting with booze
      

        The new report from House Oversight and Reform Committee claims the Trump administration isn't handing over the documents it needs
      

        The Baltimore Sun responded to the attacks, writing in the editorial page that it's "better to have some vermin living in your neighborhood than to be one"
      

        Apparel company chief defended the city on Instagram following disparaging comments by President Trump
      

        The ambitious plan to replace private insurance with a government-run model has some unions anxious about losing benefits
      

        Meghan Markle's issue of British Vogue is entitled "Forces for Change," highlighting women breaking barriers
      

        The seizure has heightened tensions in the Strait of Hormuz, a critical waterway for the world's energy supplies
      

        Breakthrough rapper's viral song "Old Town Road" overtook the Billboard record set by Mariah Carey's "One Sweet Day​" for most weeks at No. 1
      

        Meghan Markle's issue of British Vogue is entitled "Forces for Change," highlighting women breaking barriers
      

        Kyle "Bugha" Giersdorf scored 26 more points than runner-up "psalm" to take home the title Sunday night in New York City
      

        Country music icon Dolly Parton joined a first-ever all-female roster of headliners at the venerable music fest
      

        The hacker got information including credit scores and balances plus the Social Security numbers of about 140,000 customers
      

        Ride-hailing company blames its losses partly on costly promotions to attract riders and drivers
      

        Kyle "Bugha" Giersdorf scored 26 more points than runner-up "psalm" to take home the title Sunday night in New York City
      

        Tax collectors recently found information on 13,000 Coinbase account holders—and they're insisting on Uncle Sam's cut
      

        Almost 40 years ago there were 22 birds left; today the species' population has increased dramatically
      

        A migration of mild-mannered grasshoppers sweeping through the Las Vegas area is being attributed to wet weather several months ago
      

        The "Española Improved" chile plant will be the first fruiting plant that the U.S. will grow aboard the Space Station
      

        Father Juan Rodriguez is facing manslaughter and criminally negligent homicide charges in the deaths of his son and daughter
      

        Philadelphia's 171-year-old Hahnemann Hospital was sold to a private equity firm -- now it may become luxury condos
      

        The Naegleria fowleri amoeba is generally found in warm, fresh water, but cases of human infection are rare
      

        The hacker got information including credit scores and balances plus the Social Security numbers of about 140,000 customers
      

        Despite anonymous mother's viral tirade, the Magic Kingdom has been courting millennials for years—starting with booze
      

        The U.S.'s biggest financial institutions rake in billions a year from overdrafts penalties, which hit females harder
      

        Apparel company chief defended the city on Instagram following disparaging comments by President Trump
      

        Ride-hailing company blames its losses partly on costly promotions to attract riders and drivers
      

        Police say Santino William Legan opened fire with a legally purchased AK-47-type assault rifle, killing a 6-year-old boy, 13-year-old girl and a 25-year-old man
      

        Police say they have located the car belonging to the gunman in the mass shooting at a California food festival, but have not yet figured out a motive. Jamie Yuccas joins CBSN with the latest.
      

        Two American teenagers are accused of murdering an Italian officer in Rome. A funeral service was held for Mario Cerciello Rega near Naples on Monday. Seth Doane reports.
      

        A shooting at a California festival left three dead, including a 6-year-old boy who had just graduated from kindergarten. The other victims were ages 13 and 25. Janet Shamlian reports.
      

        Three people were killed and more than a dozen injured, after a gunman opened fire at the Gilroy Garlic Festival in California. The gunman was killed by police and now they're seeking to question a second person in connection with the shooting. Jamie Yuccas reports.
      

        Scientists revealed an asteroid dubbed by some as a "city killer" came closer to the Earth than the moon this week
      

        The "Española Improved" chile plant will be the first fruiting plant that the U.S. will grow aboard the Space Station
      

        Thursday's launch marks SpaceX's 18th cargo run to the International Space Station. The Dragon supply ship atop the Falcon 9 was making its third trip to the lab complex, this time loaded with 5,000 pounds of crew supplies, equipment and high-tech science gear, including a low-tech container of bright green Nickelodeon "slime" for educational outreach. Watch the rocket launch here.
      

        SpaceX Dragon cargo ship was loaded with 5,000 pounds of equipment and supplies — including a container of bright green Nickelodeon "slime"
      

        A traveling exhibition of gothic and occult art, sideshow performers, and bizarre specimens stopped outside Chicago, where CBS News photographer Jake Barlow took in the odd sights
      

        America's first major landscaped public park, the 840-acre park in Manhattan welcomes more than 37 million visitors every year
      

        Evidence from the scene of Pace University student DJ Henry’s fatal encounter with Officer Aaron Hess in Mount Pleasant, N.Y.
      

        Listen to former NBA star Lorenzen Wright’s frantic 911 call made on the night in 2010 that he was murdered. Wright was unable to give his name or location as 11 gunshots are heard before the call cuts out. It took days for authorities to learn that it was Wright who made the call.
      

        Prosecutor Paul Hagerman reads an affidavit about informant Jimmie Martin who claims he helped plan the murder of Lorenzen Wright.  Martin is Sherra Wright’s cousin. Martin claims he wasn’t there the night of the murder, but says he did help clean up the crime scene.
      

        On July 23, 2015, detectives with the Montgomery County Texas Constable's Office arrive at the Houston gym owned by Ramon Sosa and his wife, Lulu, to arrest Lulu on suspicion of plotting her husband's death.
      

        A wealthy Hollywood producer is accused of murdering his girlfriend. Was he following the plot of his frightening novel?  Correspondent Maureen Maher investigates Saturday, July 13 at 10/9c on CBS.
      

        When Olga Kasian did not hear from her daughter Iana after several days, she began repeatedly calling 911. Concerned about Iana's well-being and her recent C-section, Kasian desperately asks police -- through the help of an Russian interpreter -- to enter the home her daughter shared with boyfriend Blake Leibel.
      