Gabriel Christian Natale Hjorth (R) and Finnegan Lee Elder, sit in their hotel room in Rome, Italy. (Italian Carabinieri via AP)
ROME—Two American teenagers who were classmates at a California high school spent a second night in a Rome jail on July 27 after they were interrogated for hours about their alleged roles in the murder of an Italian policeman.
Investigators contended in written statements Saturday that the pair had confessed to their roles in the grisly slaying. Vice Brigadier Mario Cerciello Rega, a member of the storied Carabinieri paramilitary corps, was stabbed eight times, allegedly by one of the teens, leaving him bleeding on a street close to the teens’ upscale hotel near Rome’s Tiber River.
Italian authorities identified the two as Gabriel Christian Natale-Hjorth, 18, and Finnegan Lee Elder, 19, and said they were born in San Francisco.
In the detention order, Elder is described as repeatedly stabbing the 35-year-old officer, who had just returned to duty a few days earlier from his honeymoon.
Under Italian law, persons participating in a killing, but who didn’t actually carry out the slaying itself, risk being charged with murder.
Cerciello Rega, beloved for his charity work with the homeless and the ailing, was praised as a hero for trying to help keep Rome’s streets safe.
Photos of the officer, wearing his uniform for his wedding and showing off his wedding band as he sat next to his beaming bride, dominated the front pages of many Italian newspapers Saturday.
“Hoping that the killer of our poor Carabiniere never gets out of prison, I remind do-gooders that in the United States, whoever kills risks the death penalty,” tweeted Interior Minister Matteo Salvini, who is also in charge of state police, another national Italian police corps. “I’m not saying we’ll get to that, but yes to a life in prison (in labor, obviously).”
Elder’s lawyer, Francesco Codini, said his client had exercised his right not to respond to questions during a hearing before a judge at the jail Saturday to determine whether the suspects remain locked up.
Italian state radio reported Sunday the judge ruled that the Americans stay in jail while the investigation goes forward.
Suspects deemed a flight risk are often denied release. Italian police had said the two teens were preparing to leave Italy later on Friday.
Codini declined to say anything more out of “respect for the family” of the slain officer. Asked how Elder was doing psychologically, he replied: “worn out.”
The young men were high school classmates in Mill Valley, a wealthy suburb 10 miles north of San Francisco en route to the towering redwood trees in Muir Woods National Park. The town of 14,000 is a desirable destination for families who are drawn to its safe, leafy neighborhoods and reputable public schools.
“We are shocked and dismayed at the events that have been reported, but we have very little independent information about these events,” Elder’s family said in a statement. “We have not been able to have any communication with our son.”
The family expressed condolences to the policeman’s family and “all of those who have been impacted by this tragedy.”
At a house listed for the mother of Natale-Hjorth, a young man who answered the door yelled “No!” when an Associated Press reporter asked to speak to her.
An Italian investigator said the pair had snatched the bag of a drug dealer in Rome after the man apparently gave them a different substance instead of the cocaine they were seeking. The person spoke on condition of anonymity because the probe is continuing.
In a statement, the Carabinieri contended that the Americans demanded cash and cocaine to return the knapsack. They said the bag, with a phone inside, was snatched from an Italian man. The Americans, police said, “threatened to not give it back to him without payment of 100 euros and a gram of cocaine.”
The bag’s owner reported the theft, and the plainclothes officers were sent to the site of the rendezvous to allegedly turn over the bag for ransom, the statement said.
The Americans, “even though the officers identified themselves as being Carabinieri, didn’t hesitate to engage in a struggle, culminating in the mortal wounding” of the policeman, the statement said.
The Carabinieri said surveillance cameras and witnesses helped them identify and find the Americans. While searching their hotel room, police said, investigators found a long knife hidden inside the room’s dropped ceiling. Also found were clothes worn during the attack, police said.
The Carabinieri statement said the Americans during their interrogation and confronted with “hard evidence,” had “confessed to their blame.”
This case could spark comparisons to another spectacular slaying investigation involving a young American in Italy.
Amanda Knox was an American university student in Perugia when she was initially accused in the 2007 stabbing death of her British roommate Meredith Kercher. She was convicted but ultimately acquitted.
Italian media focused on Knox, largely ignoring the fate of the Briton. In contrast, a decade later, the murder victim is an Italian policeman at a time when Salvini’s law-and-order right-wing party is soaring in popularity.
“Hero of the Fatherland, justice for Mario,” read a note, signed by the “neighborhood citizens” and left near the scene of his death.
Focus on the Family’s Jim Daly on the Importance of Family, Marriage, and Having Children [WCS Special]
Looking back, I see the mistakes I made on my first trip to Europe. Two college friends and I spent 10 days exploring Europe, but we picked ...
Three Seas Initiative: Boosting Economic Growth in Central and Eastern Europe While Enhancing Region’s Energy Security
News Analysis Infrastructure is the lifeblood of a healthy economy. For more than 40 years, the infrastructure in Central and Eastern European countries remained underdeveloped as the ...
Ford said it will cut 12,000 jobs in Europe by the end of next year to try to return the business to profit.
MOSCOW—Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny was discharged from a Moscow hospital on July 29 and returned to prison under guard after being treated for what his lawyer ...
An African national pushed an 8-year-old boy and his mother in front of an oncoming train in Germany on Monday, July 29, killing the boy when the ...
Christian Lindner, leader of Germany’s Free Democratic Party (FDP), led a delegation to visit Beijing recently, but was treated rudely by Chinese officials because the group had ...
Six people were injured during a brawl that broke out on a cruise ship as it sailed to Southhampton, U.K. from Norway on July 26. The fight ...
Taiwan prosecutors on July 24 have charged five current and former senior staff members at German chemical giant BASF for stealing company secrets and selling them to ...
A 19-year-old U.S. student has confessed to killing a policeman in central Rome, in a crime that has shaken Italy.
CAIRO—Up to 150 Europe-bound migrants, including women and children, were missing and feared drowned on July 25 after the boats they were traveling in capsized in the Mediterranean ...
Notre Dame survived a massive fire months ago, but the beloved Paris cathedral is facing a new threat: a heat wave. The high temperatures bearing down on ...
President Donald Trump’s recent vetoes have held up after votes in the U.S. Senate on July 29 showed the Senate majority will now allow the administration to ...
SEATTLE—A hacker gained access to personal information from more than 100 million Capital One credit applications, the bank said on Monday, July 29, as federal authorities arrested ...
A man opened fire on a crowd at a popular food festival in California on July 28, killing three people and injuring about 15 others before law ...
Democratic presidential hopeful Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) proposed a health care plan that would transition to a socialist "Medicare for All" system over the course of 10 ...
President Donald Trump has commuted the sentences of two individuals and granted full pardons to five others who had already served sentences for non-violent crimes, the White ...
White House: All Democratic Members of Congress Invited to Attend Trump’s Signing of 9/11 Bill, None Attend
No Democratic members of Congress attended the event featuring President Donald Trump signing a bill on July 29 to extend the compensation fund for the Sept. 11, ...
WASHINGTON—Rep. Tom McClintock (R-Calif.) criticized the claim by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) that the earth has only 12 years left if nothing is done about the so-called ...
At least 16 prisoners were decapitated and dozens more were killed during a prison riot in Brazil. At least 57 inmates died in the riots that involved ...
Former Trump 2016 presidential campaign associate George Papadopoulos intends to travel to Greece to retrieve $10,000 in cash that he believes consists of marked bills used by ...
WASHINGTON—As Congress heads to a long recess, lobbying efforts for the new U.S.–Mexico–Canada (USMCA) trade agreement are kicking into high gear in Washington. More than 600 national ...
President Donald Trump has received backlash from political opponents who called him "racist" for criticizing Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-Md.) and his district of Baltimore, which he called a ...
Trump on Gilroy Shooting: We Will Work to ‘Stop Evil, Prevent Violence, and Protect the Safety of All Americans’
President Donald Trump sent his condolences to victims of the deadly shooting in Gilroy, California, on Monday, July 29, saying that the communities and citizens will work ...
The roughly 2,000 state and local governments suing the drug industry over the deadly opioid crisis have yet to see any verdicts or reach any big national ...
If you or anybody you know likes to bake cakes, then you'll have heard of baking soda. It's a wonderful ingredient and a kitchen cupboard staple, but ...
NEW YORK—It’s not what you've done in life that matters, but what you haven't done. And thinking about the “if onlys” won't do anything to change them. These ...
In August 1619, a privateer docked at Point Comfort near Jamestown, Virginia. In exchange for food and supplies, the privateer left behind “20 and odd” of the ...
One of the nation's longest-running soap operas lost one of its cast members on July 29. Authorities discovered the body of Stoke-on-Trent Actress Paula Williamson at a house ...
Ariana Grande apologized for a joke she made about former child model JonBenet Ramsey, who was killed in 1996 and became the subject of national headlines for ...
A New York food importer recalled dozens of different kinds of fish because they were not re-inspected before being distributed across the nation on July 27. Premium ...
Whether you realize it or not, you know Ann Turner Cook. Or at least you know her face, albeit from 1927! Cook was the very first, the ...
Together with nearby St. Moritz, the Grand Kronenhof Pontresina is one of Switzerland’s most stylish destinations.
Lesser-known destinations in Europe offer fewer crowds and more authentic, concentrated experiences. 
When this mother learned that the peculiar bubble blowing out of her 17-week-old fetus’s mouth was actually a rare and fatal tumor, she thought “there has to ...
On Aug. 17, 2012, this young baby was almost killed by her father when she was 8 months old. Half of her brain had to be removed. ...
White House: All Democratic Members of Congress Invited to Attend Trump’s Signing of 9/11 Bill, None Attend
We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience. This includes personalizing content and advertising. By continuing to use our site, you accept our use of cookies, revised Privacy Policy and Terms of Use.