High-level delegation from Myanmar is in Cox's Bazar to convince Rohingya refugees to return to Rakhine state.
The Rohingya want guarantees of safety and official recognition of their minority status before they return to Myanmar [File: Paula Bronstein/Getty Images]
On Saturday, hundreds of Rohingya gathered at the centre where the Myanmar delegation was meeting Rohingya leaders, but were dispersed by the Bangladeshi police. 
"We came here to meet the Myanmar delegates to get some answers to our questions but we were not allowed to meet them," Safari Alam, a Rohingya refugee, told Al Jazeera. 
Al Jazeera's Tanvir Chowdhury, reporting from the sprawling camp, said the Rohingya have several fundamental demands before they even consider moving back to Myanmar.
"One is to be recognised as ethnic Rohingya, get citizenship, and have a guarantee of security by the international community," he said. "What the Myanmar delegates will achieve we have yet to see, but from the rights groups and others we know the environment is not conducive for them to return yet."
Khaled Hossain, another Rohingya refugee, told Al Jazeera: "If they recognise us as Rohingya and give us citizenship cards we'll go back there in one second."
Last November, a move to start the repatriation process fell through after none of the Rohingya agreed to return to Myanmar. It followed a visit to the camps in October last year by a Myanmar delegation.
Speaking to reporters in Dhaka on Wednesday, Bangladesh's Foreign Minister AK Abdul Momen said he hoped the "repatriation will begin by September".
Myanmar has faced international pressure to allow the Rohingya to return to Rakhine and grant them citizenship rights.
While authorities have promised to resettle the refugees, analysis of satellite imagery showed "no sign of reconstruction" in the overwhelming majority of their former settlements while, in some areas, destruction of residential buildings has continued, the Australian Strategic Policy Institute said in a report released late on Tuesday.