We use cookies to improve our service for you. You can find more information in our data protection declaration.
An Afghan government official had earlier said a delegation would meet the Taliban within the next two weeks in Europe. The militant group dubs the government an "American puppet" with no negotiating power.
The Taliban on Sunday denied reports that they would be holding direct talks with the Afghan government's representatives in the coming weeks.
The Islamist group said that talks with Kabul would only take place after the complete withdrawal of foreign troops from the country.
"Intra-Afghan talks will start only after a foreign force withdrawal is announced," Suhail Shaheen, a spokesman for the Taliban's political office in Qatar, said on Twitter.
Earlier on Sunday, Abdul Salam Rahimi, Afghanistan's state minister for peace affairs, said the government was set to hold its first-ever direct talks with the Islamist group in Europe.
Zalmay Khalilzad, the US special envoy for Afghanistan, tweeted that another round of "intra-Afghan" talks will take place "after we conclude our own agreement." The talks would include the Taliban and "an inclusive and effective national negotiating team consisting of senior government officials, key political party representatives, civil society and women," Zalmay added.
The Taliban have so far shown little interest in engaging with the Afghan government. The group, which ruled Afghanistan from 1996 until the US invasion of the country in 2001, calls President Ashraf Ghani's regime an "American puppet" with no negotiating power.
The Taliban have reportedly also agreed to visit Pakistan and meet Prime Minister Imran Khan. Pakistan, which borders Afghanistan, is trying to help US-led talks with the Taliban.
The Afghan government feels sidelined in peace talks, analysts say. Ghani insists that long-lasting peace would only be achieved through Afghan-led and Afghan-owned peace talks.
In the past few months, Taliban attacks have killed scores of civilians across the war-torn country. Experts say that Islamist insurgents are trying to demonstrate their strength in the battlefield as they talk peace in Qatar.
According to UN statistics, at least 3,804 Afghan civilians, including 927 children, lost their lives in 2018. NATO statistics show that the Taliban have killed 1,075 people since April 11.
Security analysts say that civilian casualties could mount during the peace talks because the Taliban and Afghan security forces want to negotiate from a position of strength.
"Both sides want to have an upper hand in negotiations," Aziz Rafiee, managing director of the Afghan Civil Society Forum, told DW.
"We don't expect the number of attacks to go down while talks continue," he said. "On the contrary, there could be more bloodshed."
The Taliban continue to attack civilians in Afghanistan despite reportedly pledging to negotiators in Qatar that they would stop. What is the militant group trying to achieve by continuing these violent attacks? (26.07.2019)
  
US President Donald Trump discussed the Afghan conflict with Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan on Monday at the White House. Both the Trump-Khan meeting and some of US president's comments didn't go down well in Kabul. (23.07.2019)
  
Afghanistan peace is likely to be the key topic during talks between Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan and Trump. But analysts warn Washington must not turn a blind eye to a crackdown on media and political plurality. (19.07.2019)
  
The explosion took place as a number of students were waiting to sit an exam at Afghanistan's oldest and largest university. At least eight people were killed and 33 were injured. (19.07.2019)
  
Representatives of the Afghan government and the Taliban reached an agreement on a roadmap to end nearly 18 years of war. But much more difficult work lies ahead to achieve permanent peace, experts say. (09.07.2019)
  
US Secretary of State Pompeo said that the US wants to begin withdrawing its forces from Afghanistan by 2020. The introduction of a time frame on troop reduction comes as talks with the Taliban are due later this week. 
The UN has urged NATO and Afghan forces to immediately "reduce the terrible harm being inflicted" on civilians. The US, along with its NATO and Afghan allies, have killed 717 civilians during the first half of the year. 
The Taliban continue to attack civilians in Afghanistan despite reportedly pledging to negotiators in Qatar that they would stop. What is the militant group trying to achieve by continuing these violent attacks? 