(Reuters) - Capital One Financial Corp <COF.N> said on Monday that personal information including names and addresses of about 100 million individuals in the United States and 6 million people in Canada were obtained by a hacker who has been arrested.
The suspect, a 33-year-old former Seattle technology company software engineer identified as Paige Thompson, made her initial appearance in U.S. District Court in Seattle on Monday, the U.S. Attorney's office said.
According to a complaint filed in the District Court for the Western District of Washington at Seattle, Thompson posted information from her hack, which occurred between March 12 and July 17, on coding platform GitHub. Another user saw the post and notified Capital One of the breach.
Law enforcement officials were able to track Thompson down as the page she posted on contained her full name as part of its digital address, the complaint said. Capital One said it identified the hack on July 19.
A representative for the U.S. Attorney's office said it was not immediately clear what the suspect's motive was.
The incident is expected to cost between $100 million and $150 million in 2019, mainly because of customer notifications, credit monitoring and legal support, Capital One said.
The hacker did not gain access to credit card account numbers, but about 140,000 Social Security numbers and 80,000 linked bank account numbers were compromised, Capital One said. Other personal information accessed included phone numbers and credit scores.
About 1 million social insurance numbers of the company's Canadian credit card customers were also compromised.
The Capital One hacker was able to gain access to the data through a misconfigured web application firewall, the U.S. Attorney's office said.
Credit-reporting company Equifax Inc <EFX.N> said last week it would pay up to $700 million to settle claims it broke the law during a 2017 data breach when roughly 147 million people had information, including Social Security numbers and driver's license data, compromised.
In March 2019, Royal Mail plc LON:RMG) released its earnings update. Generally, analysts seem cautiously optimistic, with earnings expected to grow by 41% in the upcoming year compared with the past 5-year average growth rate of -34%. With trailing-twelve-month net income at current levels of UK£175m, we should see this rise to UK£247m in 2020.
While researchers and scientists look at innovative ways to make solar panels more efficient and cost-competitive, others have come up with a solar technology with a bonus—free drinking water. Researchers at the King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST) in Saudi Arabia have developed a device that not only produces electricity, but also provides clean drinking water using only renewable energy for both processes. Deriving both drinking water and energy from the sun could be a major breakthrough not only in solar technology but also in helping a large portion of the world's population to get access to safe clean water, especially in arid and poor areas in Africa.
Primark is asking landlords to cut its rents in an attempt to compete with rivals that used insolvency proceedings to reduce costs and remain open, the Sunday Times reported, without saying where it got the information. The fast-fashion retailer is asking for cuts of as much as 30% on contracts with several years left in exchange for lease extensions or refurbishments, according to the newspaper. Primark has 189 stores, most of which are leased, it said.
The Dollar/Yen closed higher on Monday as investors positioned themselves ahead of the release of the Bank of Japan's monetary policy statement and interest rate decision Tuesday. The price action suggests investors are expecting a dovish tone from central bank policymakers. Traders should little reaction to a drop in U.S. Treasury yields and mixed demand for risky assets.
Investors aren't too optimistic for Apple's earnings report, out tomorrow after the bell. Yahoo Finance's Dan Howley breaks down what to expect, and how much, if any, of the low sentiment from investors stems from iPhone sales.
Last weekend, Indian social media exploded with much hilarity and embarrassment over a video of a family of tourists in Bali. The video that went viral showed the staff of a resort in the Indonesian destination pull out a gamut of sundry properties—soap dispensers, hangers, ceramic containers, and minor electrical appliances—belonging to the facility from the tourists' luggage as they prepared to vacate. Such was the mirth this episode generated that some even tagged Indian prime minister Narendra Modi, seeking a different kind of Swachh Bharat (Clean India).
Debt and other liabilities become risky for a business when it cannot easily fulfill those obligations, either with free cash flow or by raising capital at an attractive price. Ultimately, if the company can't fulfill its legal obligations to repay debt, shareholders could walk away with nothing. While that is not too common, we often do see indebted companies permanently diluting shareholders because lenders force them to raise capital at a distressed price.
It's hard to believe that just a year ago, Starbucks (NASDAQ: SBUX) stock was down in the dumps. Comparable-sales growth slowed dramatically in the third quarter of the company's 2018 fiscal year, both in the U.S. and in China. This led many investors to sell the stock in a panic, fearing that slower growth was the new normal for Starbucks.
UK bakery chain Greggs reported its best sales growth to date as it looks to diversify beyond its blockbuster vegan sausage roll, which has boosted sales and prompted the food retailer to upgrade its profit forecasts three times this year. In the 26 weeks to the end of June, Greggs reported total sales up 14.7 per cent to £546m, compared with an increase of 5.2 per cent in the same period last year. The 80-year-old food retailer, which started out as a van taking pies and bread to miners around Newcastle upon Tyne, has defied high street gloom by moving beyond its traditional baked offerings and into hot on-the-go food and healthier goods to cater to the increasingly diverse tastes of modern consumers.
Now Congress is poised to make things worse -- by undermining protections governing the country's most popular investment vehicle, the 401(k) plan. Named after a once-obscure 1978 provision in the tax code, the 401(k) allows people to set up retirement-savings accounts through their employers, with income taxes deferred until the money is withdrawn. Amid growing concern about the number of people financially unprepared for retirement, Congress is considering tweaking how the 401(k) works.
Facebook (NASDAQ: FB) has produced its second-quarter earnings report, and the headline results were just what Wall Street likes to see, with beats on both profits and revenue. And with daily active users approaching 1.6 billion, and 2.7 billion monthly users across its universe of apps, the company remains in position to deliver for advertisers. But in this segment of the MarketFoolery podcast, host Chris Hill and senior analyst Jim Mueller try to take a wider view at Facebook's situation, considering its recent settlement with the FTC, its other legal and trust issues, the monetizing of its wider universe of products, and more.
AT&T (NYSE: T), short for the American Telephone & Telegraph Company, has its roots in Alexander Graham Bell's invention of the telephone itself in 1876, and the subsequent founding of the Bell Telephone Company in 1880. Both businesses have been somewhat disrupted by the internet and wireless communications, but through both a slew of acquisitions and heavy capital expenditures on fiber and wireless technologies, AT&T is once again trying to reclaim the throne as a technological leader, not a relic of a bygone era. Can the old Ma Bell do it?
White House staffers gave President Trump a one-page document from Oracle Corp.'s lobbyists in Washington D.C. that claimed there was a secret conspiracy to award Amazon.com the $10 billion Pentagon cloud computing contract, CNN reports. Redwood City-based Oracle has spent months trying to break up the Joint Enterprise Defense Infrastructure, or JEDI, contract in court, claiming Amazon influenced Pentagon officials, and later hired employees involved in the procurement process. Trump recently reviewed a one-page report from Oracle that included a chart titled “A Conspiracy to Create a Ten Year DoD Cloud Monopoly,” with a colorful web of government officials, linked by dollar signs, arrows and a heart, Oracle executive vice president Kenneth Glueck told CNN.
GuruFocus has detected 1 severe warning sign with Snap Inc. CEO Recent Trades: CEO, 10% Owner Evan Spiegel sold 2,780,306 shares of SNAP stock on 07/26/2019 at the average price of $18.01. The price of the stock has decreased by 2.83% since.
Shares of Beyond Meat (BYND) tanked in extended trading, after the alternative meat-maker announced that it would be selling an additional 3.25 million shares of common stock. Beyond announced the secondary offering shortly after reporting second-quarter financial results. When asked by analysts for more information on the secondary offering, Beyond CFO said that they would not answer any more questions due to regulatory requirements.
Federal Reserve policy makers are gearing up for a decision on rate cuts on Wednesday afternoon. Former Fed chair Janet Yellen is now backing a quarter-point rate cut, agreeing with President Trump. Yahoo Finance's Brian Cheung, Dan Roberts, and Anjalee Khemlani discuss with Whittier Trust CIO, Sandip Bhagat.
Shares of electric-car leader Tesla (NASDAQ: TSLA) slumped Thursdays after it reported a bigger-than-expected loss for the second quarter, and a slight miss on revenue targets. In this segment of the MarketFoolery podcast, host Chris Hill and senior analyst Jim Mueller (mostly) set aside any questions of how one might feel about CEO Elon Musk or the electric car future and dig into the what these latest numbers show about how Tesla as a business is operating. Are its free cash flow numbers being supported by unsustainable management choices?
Plunging bond yields have indicated the credit markets' assessment that the Federal Reserve will almost certainly cut short-term interest rates when it meets later this week, but whether a rate cut will have a beneficial impact on economic growth remains to be seen. Cooper Tire & Rubber (NYSE: CTB), Insperity (NYSE: NSP), and Lexicon Pharmaceuticals (NASDAQ: LXRX) were among the worst performers. Shares of Cooper Tire & Rubber sank close to 10% after the tire maker reported weak results for the second quarter of 2019.
The 71 million of adjusted operating income included the benefit of the Cameron settlement under which 110 million of progress incentives were recognized during the quarter. The adjusted operating income also reflected increased cost estimates on projects in the company's NCSA segment, including 38 million on the Freeport LNG project as a result of increased construction and subcontractor costs on trains one and two as we near completion on each of those trains, and 33 million on the company's companies offshore project for Pemex in the Gulf of Mexico related to disagreements with the customer that have coincided with changes in that company's leadership team and changes in the country's pol...
Biotech stocks can be a risky proposition heading into an election year. With this political minefield in mind, we asked three our Motley Fool contributors which biotech stocks they think might be worth the risk. George Budwell (Heron Therapeutics): Heron Therapeutics got walloped earlier this year after the company announced that the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) had rejected its experimental non-opioid pain medication known as HTX-011.
Expanding its pipeline to include more early detection tests for prevalent cancers was one of the key drivers in Exact Sciences Corp.'s agreement to acquire California-based cancer diagnostic company Genomic Health Inc. for $2.8 billion, company leaders said Monday. Not only will the combined company have capital to support a high level of investment in research and development, but specifically, it will equip Exact Sciences with infrastructure to deliver a new blood-based test it has been developing to accurately detect liver cancer, said Kevin Conroy, CEO of Madison-based Exact Sciences. Exact Sciences, for several years, has been working on liver cancer detection tests with Mayo Clinic researchers.
Yet cash flow is typically more important than profit for assessing dividend sustainability, so we should always check if the company generated enough cash to afford its dividend. The company paid out 99% of its free cash flow over the last year, which we think is outside the ideal range for most businesses. Cash flows are usually much more volatile than earnings, so this could be a temporary effect - but we'd generally want look more closely here.
Monday's trading session didn't show much of a firm direction for the stock market, as some major benchmarks rose while others gave up ground. There's a lot of uncertainty among investors that's coming to a head in the next few days, with probably the most awaited news set to come from the Federal Reserve in the middle of the week. Luckin Coffee (NASDAQ: LK), Tower Semiconductor (NASDAQ: TSEM), and ICICI Bank (NYSE: IBN) were among the top performers.
Sr. Vice President & CFO of Texas Instruments Inc (30-Year Financial, Insider Trades) Rafael R Lizardi (insider trades) sold 76,523 shares of TXN on 07/25/2019 at an average price of $128.02 a share. The total sale was $9.8 million.
Cantwell also set a price target of $104 on the stock. The new target reflects a potential downside of 9.9% from the company's closing price of $115.49 on July 26. According to a