Our live coverage of the protests on Hong Kong Island has concluded, but you can read more about the ongoing crisis 
Most protesters appear to be leaving and heading into the Sheung Wan subway station, in time to catch the last train home.
Over the past two chaotic months, protests have typically ended by 12:30 a.m., before the final trains leave -- young protesters don't want to get separated, or risk being stranded and picked up by police.
Some protesters have been ducking into the MTR station intermittently all night for cover from the tear gas before heading back out for another push. 
In the end, the police's tactics had paid off: protesters had been corralled into one area, surrounded on all sides, with only the subway station as an exit. Most protesters now appear to be on the MTR home.
It was a tense night in Hong Kong on Sunday as the city’s streets once again became a battle ground between police and protesters.
The streets around the Sheung Wan district, where police and protesters are still facing off, are fogged by the toxic, burning gas. It's also seeping into people’s homes through windows and air conditioning units in this highly residential area.
Riot police aren't just firing tear gas in Sheung Wan as they try to disperse crowds -- they're also firing rubber bullets.
The bullets may be nonlethal, but their size and weight can make quite a painful hit. Images on social media from the past few protests have shown protesters and journalists sporting purple, palm-sized bruises on their chests and arms after being hit by these bullets.
The protests began about two months ago over a controversial bill that would allow extradition from Hong Kong to China. But the bill has been suspended and called "dead" by the government -- so why are people still protesting?
It's now the eighth weekend of protests in Hong Kong -- and it looks like it may be a long night as police and protesters push back and forth.
Earlier today thousands gathered in Chater Garden, Central, for a police-approved protest. But around mid-afternoon some protesters defied a police ban on marching through the city, and fanned out to Causeway Bay and the West of the city, to protest outside the Liaison Office, Beijing's main base in Hong Kong.
Four people have been hospitalized due to today's protests, according to the Hong Kong Hospital Authority.
It's been a violent and chaotic weekend -- yesterday's protest in Yuen Long district also saw police and protesters clashing, leaving 23 people hospitalized. As of this morning, most had been discharged except for six.