Romania's police chief has been fired over his handling of the murder of a 15-year-old girl, after it was revealed she made three emergency calls to report her own kidnapping, at one point screaming "he's coming, he's coming".
The girl was snatched on Wednesday as she tried to hitchhike home to Dobrosloveni in southern Romania
She called emergency services three times on Thursday morning, but police did not execute a search warrant for 19 hours
A 65-year-old suspect, who police believe may have killed a second teenager, was taken into custody on Saturday
Critics allege that officials failed to take the alert seriously and finally reacted too late to help save the teen, identified as Alexandra.
The girl was snatched on Wednesday (local time) as she tried to hitchhike home to Dobrosloveni in southern Romania, police said.
On Thursday morning, she managed to ring the emergency number 112 three times and provide clues to police about the place in which she was being held by a car driver who had picked her up.
Three buildings were searched by officers before they finally found the house where she had been held, more than 12 hours after her phone calls.
Police then sought a search warrant, which is not required in emergencies, and waited until dawn to enter the house — 19 hours after the teenager's last call.
A 65-year-old suspect, identified as Gheorghe Dinca, was taken into custody on Saturday (local time) after investigators searching his home and garden discovered human remains and jewellery belonging to the girl.
The suspect insisted he was innocent and had never met the teen but failed to explain why she had used his phone, his lawyer said.
Police believe a second teenager, whose parents reported her missing in the same area three months ago, may have been murdered by the same killer. 
The case, which has sparked widespread protests in the capital of Bucharest, prompted Interior Minister Nicolae Moga to sack police chief Ioan Buda on Friday "because drastic measures are required".
Amid chants of "incompetence" and angry calls for the Government to step down, demonstrators placed flowers and candles at a makeshift memorial outside the Interior Ministry the following evening. 
They have accused the ruling Social Democrats of weakening the criminal justice system with controversial reforms heavily criticised by Brussels.
"Why did the police not intervene earlier? Everyone needs to answer for this, from police officers and prosecutors to (Prime Minister Viorica) Dancila," protester Cristian Nan said.
Centre-right President Klaus Iohannis said earlier the "resignations of all those who mishandled this case which had such dramatic consequences are obligatory". 
ABC teams share the story behind the story and insights into the making of digital, TV and radio content.
About a year ago, I moved into a Sydney apartment with one of my friends. Turns out we've been at risk this entire time. And because we're renting this place, no one bothered to tell us, writes Avani Dias.
The latest Household, Income and Labour Dynamics Survey explains why people feel they are going backwards despite official statistics.
Shayna Jack is the not the first athlete to point to a secondary source after a positive drug test, but experts say the warnings are very clear when it comes to athletes taking sports supplements.
Most Republicans do not believe Mr Trump is a racist. This is why his recent remarks are so troubling to me, to people of colour and to many Trump supporters throughout the country.
The race is on to lure Tim Kelly back to WA, but have West Coast priced themselves out of the contest?
This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.