Countries neighbouring the still rumbling Syrian war are rounding up hundreds of workers and sending many back to volatile parts of the country, raising fears of mass deportations that will imperil large numbers of refugees.
Syrians living in Istanbul and Beirut have been targeted by immigration authorities in recent weeks, with more than 1,000 detained in Turkey’s biggest city last weekend and given 30 days to leave.
The scale and speed of the arrests mark a reversal of Turkey’s open-door policy towards Syrian refugees – a hallmark of the war’s early years during which up to 5 million people crossed the Turkish border.
In the Lebanese capital, refugees, many of them undocumented workers, have spoken of being summarily dismissed from their jobs since early July as part of a new government decree, the stated aim of which is to prioritise Lebanese labour over foreign workers. The new law comes amid heightened political rhetoric over the fate of Syrian migrants, with Lebanese allies of the Syrian leader insisting that the war is all but over and the country is safe.
“It is my job to properly regulate the labour market,” he said. “To encourage Lebanese workers, as the economy isn’t doing so well, and regulate the foreign workers. If the law wasn’t implemented prior, it isn’t my burden to bear. I sympathise with Syrians dearly. I understand they don’t want to go back because it’s not safe for them.”
In Syrian government-held areas, refugees who have returned voluntarily or been forced across the border report widespread conscription and detentions. Many say their properties have been seized by regime officials as part of a highly controversial law that confiscates the homes of those suspected of being members or supporters of the armed opposition.
After he was arrested in Istanbul, one Syrian man from Idlib, Mahmoud Qaddah, said: “In the eight days I spent detained, I signed more than 15 papers. They never said what they were, and there was no translator. ‘Sign and you can go home,’ they said – I didn’t think that they meant to Syria.”
Gökçe Ceylandağ, a spokesperson for Turkey’s migration directorate, denied that Syrians were being forced back. “Syrians are not sent back except in cases of voluntary repatriation. These allegations do not reflect the truth.”
Alaa Mohammed, 25, spent eight days in police custody after being asked for papers in Istanbul. Then he was sent to Idlib province.
Liz Throssell, a spokesperson for the UN refugee agency UNHCR, said: “Politically, this is very sensitive. We are in constant dialogue with the government on a number of issues, particularly about people having to go back to their provinces … but are looking at a number of reported cases related to deportations and have not been able to confirm those.”
Another UN staff member said: “We hear constant reports of refugees being forced to sign that form. UNHCR is responsible for making sure those refugees don’t end up in Idlib, and they are failing.”
Bassel Hailam, the vice-president of the civil society group the Syrian Associations Platform, said his organisation was tracking 2,600 deportations from Turkey over the past two years.
Syria accuses Israel of ‘practising state terrorism’ after strikes reported to have killed at least 15 people