Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification.
Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification.
Yang Guang, a spokesman for mainland China's Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office of the State Council.

                                                    WANG ZHAO/AFP/Getty Images
                                            
 Beijing on Monday responded to political unrest that has rocked Hong Kong for nearly two months, saying Hong Kong's society would "suffer" if protests continue.     
 The Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office, part of the Chinese central government, held the first press conference of its 22-year history on Monday in Beijing.     
 Beijing on Monday responded to political unrest that has rocked Hong Kong for nearly two months, saying Hong Kong's society would "suffer" if the protests continue. 
 The Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office under the State Council, the Chinese government agency responsible for coordination between the mainland and the two territories, on Monday held the first press conference of its 22-year history. 
 The agency expressed support for Carrie Lam, the embattled Hong Kong chief executive who is facing calls to resign, and for the Hong Kong Police Force, which has been accused of using unnecessary force against protesters. 
 "Hong Kong cannot afford to have instability," the statement said. "Should the chaos continue, it is the entire Hong Kong that will suffer." 
 Hostile protests in Hong Kong are unlikely to end anytime soon unless world leaders address Chinese interference, activists say

                    The SEC is stepping up scrutiny of mutual funds that have poured money into unicorns like WeWork and Airbnb
                

                    Billionaire 'Bond King' Jeffrey Gundlach unpacks a market phenomenon that takes place just before a recession hits — and warns it's happening right now
                

                    25 rising stars in venture capital who control millions of dollars in Silicon Valley and decide which startups will blow up
                

                    AI has the potential to radically transform financial services. But first banks need to get their data in order.
                

                    AI is going to change your career. IBM is showing how that can be a good thing.
                
Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification.