Mack Horton says Shayna Jack's positive test for a banned substance has not changed his position on drugs in sport, after earlier refusing to answer questions over the doping scandal engulfing Australian swimming.
He told the Seven Network the revelation Jack had returned a positive drug test had not shifted his anti-doping stance.
"I was disappointed to learn late yesterday that a fellow Dolphins team member had recently returned a positive A sample," Horton said.
"I applaud the decision to immediately withdraw the athlete in question from further competition until this matter is resolved.
"My position remains firm — clean sport must be a priority for all athletes, all sports and all nations."
"Just wondering if you had any words about the Shayna Jack dispute?" ABC correspondent Jake Sturmer asked Horton at the world championships.
Shayna Jack tested positive for Ligandrol, a drug used to treat medical conditions like osteoporosis.
Jack, in a statement linked from her Instagram account, intimated that Ligandrol can be found in contaminated supplements.
"I was in complete shock, asking myself how and why is this happening to me. My brain repeated over and over: 'I have always checked my substances', 'I didn't do this', 'why is this happening to me?', 'I've done nothing wrong'," she said.
"I could still hear the woman in the background on the phone, talking more about what will go on and that I have to leave the camp and return home, as I was placed on immediate provisional suspension until the B sample is tested.
Australian swimmers have been cheered on for pointing the finger at drug cheats this week. Now with Shayna Jack testing positive, the finger is being pointed back.
"She also went on to explain what was found in my system, I had never heard of it before, let alone know how to pronounce it; she said it was 'Ligandrol'. I now know that this can be found in contaminated supplements."
American three-time Olympic medallist Ryan Murphy said while the news was "disappointing", he was taking Jack "at her word".
"It's devastating, we had a similar situation a year ago and it's really hard to deal with that because we have relationships with those athletes, we think about the personal side," he said.
"We are trying to take her at her word that it wasn't intentionally ingested. Hopefully the process works itself out in the next couple of months when you get all the information."
with claims the sport's governing body tried to cover the news up during the world swimming championships
"It is bitterly disappointing, but it also does not change at all Swimming Australia's view of the absolute necessity to have a clean sport and a sport that is drug-free," she said.
"I think that Mack has made a stand for something that he truly believes in. I think we actually have the same stance. We absolutely do not want drugs in our sport.
"I think that Mack made a stance that he absolutely is comfortable with and would be comfortable with that today."
Ms Russell praised Horton for being "passionate" about his anti-doping stance but admitted it was "difficult" to watch last Sunday's medal ceremony, knowing what lay ahead for him and Jack.
"I certainly was watching Mack, distressed about what would befall both Shayna and Mack in the coming days and week," she said.
"I think yes because that is a totally different subject as well. This is about someone standing up for clean sport and we still do that.
"If the meet started tomorrow with this knowledge he would stand there again and if I could I would stand next to him."
Verhaeren rejected suggestions that Horton had been hung out to dry by the way Jack's case had been communicated.
"Would we all do the same [as Horton]? Probably not. But we don't walk away from it [the discussion] either and particularly not where a fellow teammate, a fellow country member has been found positive," he said.
Former ASADA head Richard Ings took aim at Swimming Australia's decision not to make the drug test public weeks ago, saying: "By covering up and not telling the truth, it makes the story bigger and worse".
"When an athlete is provisionally suspended, the rules do allow the sport to make a public announcement," he added.
But Ms Russell insisted Swimming Australia had no choice but to keep the details of the drug test secret until Jack went public.
"Under our policy, it's very, very clear. We must not speak publicly and we have some very strict confidentiality agreements in place so that only ASADA or the athlete are the ones that can actually speak on the particulars of the matter," she said.
ABC teams share the story behind the story and insights into the making of digital, TV and radio content.
About a year ago, I moved into a Sydney apartment with one of my friends. Turns out we've been at risk this entire time. And because we're renting this place, no one bothered to tell us, writes Avani Dias.
The latest Household, Income and Labour Dynamics Survey explains why people feel they are going backwards despite official statistics.
Shayna Jack is the not the first athlete to point to a secondary source after a positive drug test, but experts say the warnings are very clear when it comes to athletes taking sports supplements.
Most Republicans do not believe Mr Trump is a racist. This is why his recent remarks are so troubling to me, to people of colour and to many Trump supporters throughout the country.
The race is on to lure Tim Kelly back to WA, but have West Coast priced themselves out of the contest?
This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.