Vice presidential candidate Amrullah Saleh, 46, was quickly evacuated during the earliest phase of the attack when a car bomb went off outside his office in the capital of Kabul. At least four assailants took part in the assault, which reportedly lasted six hours, and they were killed by Afghan security forces. It is unclear if they were affiliated with the Taliban or any other group. 
The attack took place hours after Saleh attended the inaugural ceremony of the pair's campaign. Afghan voters go to the polls September 28. 
Saleh previously served as the director of the National Directorate of Security, the country's main intelligence agency, and was interior minister from December 2018 to January 2019. He began his political career in the late 1990s as an official for the Northern Alliance, the anti-Taliban group supported by the United States before the founding of the current government. 
Saleh, who sustained a minor injury to one arm in the attack, is a vocal critic of the Taliban and has been targeted for assassination in the past. When asked if he feared for his life during a 2009 interview, he said, "Sure, and if they kill me, I have told my family and my friends not to complain about anything, because I have killed many of them with pride, so, I am a very, very legitimate target, very legitimate, because when I stand against them, the desire to stand against them is part of my blood. I believe they are wrong." 
Zalmay Khalilzad, the U.S. special representative leading Taliban peace talks, denounced Sunday's deadly assault. 
The United States has been engaged in talks with the Taliban for nearly a year in an attempt to secure a peace agreement, but progress has been limited due to the Taliban's refusal to recognize the legitimacy of the government in Kabul. 
Taliban spokesman Sohail Shaheen said Saturday the terror group would not cease its attacks during peace talks or the presidential campaign. Voting was postposted in two provinces during last year's parliamentary elections because of violence.

               She has compared asylum-seekers to cockroaches, tweeted racist slurs, and been fired for demanding a “final solution” in the wake of the Manchester suicide attack.
              

               Joe Biden heads into the second round of debates in Detroit this week being hailed as the Democratic presidential front-runner,
              

               The multimillionaire CEO of Overstock.com engaged in a sexual relationship with Russian spy Maria Butina with the encouragement of the FBI but did not follow their directions when they told him to rekindle it, he has claimed.
              

               President Trump continued to attack House Oversight Chairman Elijah Cummings on Monday after a weekend of tweets targeting the Maryland Democrat.
              

               A woman from Belarus died attempting to traverse a fast-moving river while on a trip to visit the bus made famous by the book and movie Into the Wild.
              

               Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Ben Carson, a longtime Baltimore resident and a former pediatric neurosurgeon at Johns Hopkins University, claimed during a Monday appearance on Tucker Carlson Tonight that he often regretted having to send his young patients back to their dilapidated Baltimore homes after his life-saving surgeries.
              

               A law allowing terminally ill patients to end their lives goes into effect in New Jersey this week.
              

               A Seattle software engineer who used the screen name "erratic" has been arrested in the theft of account information on 106 million Capital One credit card applicants and customers.
              

               CNN Worldwide President Jeff Zucker reportedly held a breakfast to introduce Kamala Harris to the power players of New York while she was running for California attorney general a decade ago.
              

               The top Homeland Security spokesman, brought in to serve last month by acting Secretary Kevin McAleenan, is a former Border Patrol agent whom U.S. Customs and Border Protection once attempted to fire for faking a crime against himself, according to three CBP officials with first-hand knowledge of the incident and a fourth who is also aware of it.
              

               Two men who came to the U.S. from Somali as refugees were arrested after attempting to fly from Arizona to Egypt, allegedly with the intention of joining the Islamic State.
              

               Senate Republicans say they are unfamiliar with President Trump’s pick to succeed Dan Coats as the next director of intelligence, and they are withholding critical support for now.
              

               The Senate voted Monday to sustain President Trump’s veto of three measures blocking arms sales to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, providing a victory for the administration and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo in their efforts to bolster security in the Middle East.
              

               A group of suspected Boko Haram militants killed more than 60 people at a funeral in northeastern Nigeria over the weekend, in what would be the region’s deadliest attack of the year.
              

               Joe Biden once joked that in Delaware "you cannot go to a 7-Eleven or a Dunkin' Donuts unless you have a slight Indian accent." Hillary Clinton quipped at a Missouri political fundraiser that Mahatma Gandhi once "ran a gas station down in St. Louis.”
              

               Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, who is accused of being one of the major architects of 9/11, has seemingly floated the possibility of becoming part of a suit against Saudi Arabia in an effort to avoid the death penalty. Mohammed, who has previously expressed his desire to die as a martyr, has changed his tone to avoid a death sentence at the hands of a military commission in Guantanamo Bay, where he is currently being housed.
              