Video footage of the event showed Mr Field pushing the protester against a pillar and then marching her outside, after several activists tried to disrupt Philip Hammond’s Mansion House speech.
The Cities of London and Westminster MP was not invited back into the government when Mr Johnson became prime minister, and the probe into his conduct has now been dropped.
“The current PM considers this issue was a matter for the previous PM concerning his conduct during his time as a minister under her appointment.”
He said in a statement: “In the confusion many guests understandably felt threatened and when one protester rushed past me towards the top table I instinctively reacted.
“There was no security present and I was for a split second second genuinely worried she might have been armed. As a result I grasped the intruder firmly in order to remove her from the room as swiftly as possible.
“I deeply regret this episode and unreservedly apologise to the lady concerned for grabbing her, but in the current climate I felt the need to act decisively to close down the threat to the safety of those present.”
Ms Barker said she had been left “shaken up” by the incident, adding: “I was armed with peer-reviewed science – the message that we were giving out. That’s all I was armed with.”
Louise Haigh, shadow policing minister, said: “Never mind not being fit for a job in government, Mark Field isn’t fit to be an MP.
“Having previously failed to condemn his actions, this is a test of Boris Johnson’s attitude towards women. He should kick him out of the Conservative Party immediately.”
A Conservative spokesperson said: “We note the outcome of the police investigation. We are reviewing this matter in line with our procedures.”
Swearing, personal abuse, racism, sexism, homophobia and other discriminatory or inciteful
                      language is not acceptable
Swearing, personal abuse, racism, sexism, homophobia and other discriminatory or inciteful
                      language is not acceptable
Want to discuss real-world problems, be involved in the most engaging discussions and hear from the
        journalists? Try Independent Minds free for 1 month. 
Independent Minds Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Minds.
      It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss
      real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when
      they can to create a true meeting of independent minds. The most insightful comments on all subjects
      will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies
      to your comment.
    

      The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to
      Independent Minds. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post
      the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please
      continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
    