With the global resurgence in legalizing marijuana, it is not surprising that Thailand’s Public Health Ministry is preparing an initial batch of 15,000 doses of medical cannabis oil for public consumption.
 to begin the manufacturing of cannabinoid medicine. According to Dr. Piyasakol, the GPO will be focusing on cannabis oil that will be taken sublingually. 5,000 of these doses will be made available through the initiative of the Chaophraya Abhaibhubejhr Hospital.
Dr. Piyasakol admitted that the initial product was not enough to meet the demand for medical cannabis oil, and the 15,000 doses that will be available by the end of July will be for distribution to the volunteers of the medical marijuana programs that are still in the trial process. He promised that the GPO will be expanding production in the coming months to ensure an adequate supply of the medical-grade, cannabis oil.
“In the first phase from July to September, people who have been certified by a doctor as being likely to benefit from cannabis can only get their prescribed medicine at major hospitals in Bangkok and the provincial hospitals,” Piyasakol said. The second phase, he continued, will be in April starting next year and the medicine will then be available at every hospital in the country.
The government has performed the initial steps to legalize marijuana in all levels, including offering amnesty to marijuana users so that they may become registered medical marijuana users. The registration process happened between February and May of this year.
 for the government’s medical marijuana program may do so through the Department of Medical Services (DMS). Medical fees will be levied on registered users on a case to case basis. GPO’s target patients are people who suffer from nausea after chemotherapy, children with epilepsy, adult patients with drug-resistant epilepsy, patients with multiple sclerosis and muscle contractions, and individuals who are suffering from neuropathic pain. Patients suffering from Alzheimer’s, anxiety disorders, and Parkinson’s disease may also benefit from cannabis treatment.
GPO Chairman Dr. Sopon Mekthon assured that his agency will be expanding production by cultivating the crops in newly established greenhouses. “It not only assures larger cannabis yields but also helps reduce production costs by up to eightfold, compared to cultivating in a normal indoor situation,”
“We are now studying the types and specifications of greenhouses suited to intensive cannabis cultivation and expect to start construction next year,” Sopon said.
Sopon further noted that when the World Health Organization drops CBD from its list of illicit narcotics in 2020, this could also remove the prohibition in Thailand of planting specific strains of marijuana in the country which have CBD has its primary component. CBD is cannabidiol, a major, active chemical compound in marijuana.
Licensed farmers would then be able to farm marijuana legally, and the government will purchase the cannabis from the farmers, so the government can obtain more cannabis for medical production. However, there is a catch: the GPO will only accept cannabis that meets the stringent requirements of being medical-grade, to maintain the safety of the medical cannabis oil being distributed by the government, according to Sopon.  
Like other types of medicine, some users of cannabis oil have reported side effects. The Krabi Public Health Office 
 that many of its 158 registered medical marijuana users have developed side effects as a result of using marijuana. Krabi is a southern province in Thailand. Many of the users did not consult with traditional doctors and pharmacists, and as a result, they have developed side effects, according to Deputy Chief Pinyo Tarangkon. “Although extracts from marijuana can ease pain, they may not be suitable for some patients,” Pinyo said.

																		Chinese megastar Fan BingBing disappeared when she was fined for tax evasion cases. Now, she’s back in the spotlight again.								
Malaysian food is often creamy, spicy, and flavorful – a testament to the diversity of this strong nation.
A new raid conducted by the special administrative department of Pattaya, in Thailand uncovers jarring evidence of prostitution and under-age sex being offered in this infamous part of the city.
Perilla oil is flavorful and a loyal companion in Korean cooking – but what really makes it so special in this region?
Myanmar’s private sector is lighting up the country –literally. Yoma Micro Power is installing power panels to remote villages.
Home to a hundred million amazing people, the Philippines is often get viewed the wrong way. It’s about time we dispel some of these misconceptions.
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are as essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience.
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are as essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience.
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information.
Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website.