Former deputy prime minister Barnaby Joyce has tried to walk back comments he made to a newspaper in which he claimed his $211,000 income was "spread thin".
The article prompted criticism from his fellow parliamentarians, prompting Mr Joyce to clarify his circumstances.
"You've all read it but I am not skint … I am on an incredibly good wage and even on that there come times where you've really got to budget because of circumstances that I brought on myself," he said.
Mr Joyce supports two families, having separated from his wife, Natalie, the mother of four of his children.
In the article, Mr Joyce said he eats his own sheep, rarely eats out and switches off the heater on cold winter nights.
Mr Joyce said he had called for an increase to Newstart because he had a new understanding for how tough it would be to live on.
"It's not that I'm not getting money, it's just that it's spread so thin," he told News Corp's The Courier-Mail.
"What a ridiculous, stupid way to explain himself and he is saying Newstart allowance, people need a helping hand, which I've been saying for some time now."
About 723,000 Australians receive the Newstart allowance. If they are single they live on about $40 a day.
Welfare groups, the business community and politicians across the political spectrum have called for an increase in Newstart payments.
The Government has repeatedly rejected those calls and insisted two-thirds of people on Newstart found work within 12 months.
ABC teams share the story behind the story and insights into the making of digital, TV and radio content.
The latest Household, Income and Labour Dynamics Survey explains why people feel they are going backwards despite official statistics.
Shayna Jack is the not the first athlete to point to a secondary source after a positive drug test, but experts say the warnings are very clear when it comes to athletes taking sports supplements.
Most Republicans do not believe Mr Trump is a racist. This is why his recent remarks are so troubling to me, to people of colour and to many Trump supporters throughout the country.
The WikiLeaks founder's detractors say that despite their dislike for the man, we need to separate him from the charges against him as his prosecution could have grave implications for us all.
The race is on to lure Tim Kelly back to WA, but have West Coast priced themselves out of the contest?
This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.