New PM was booed in Scotland, where first minister Nicola Sturgeon said it was clear he was pursuing a ‘hardline’ no-deal outcome
He claimed there was “ample scope” for negotiations to rewrite Ms May’s deal by removing the controversial Irish backstop – something the EU have said they will not do. And he said he was ready to “go the extra thousand miles” to get a deal.
But he acknowledged that after he set out the UK’s position to European leaders including Jean-Claude Juncker, the European Commission president, Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, and Emmanuel Macron, the French president, there was “no change in their position” that last November’s agreement will not be revised.
Downing Street indicated that the UK was making European readiness to shift position a precondition for new negotiations on Brexit, setting up the possibility that no meaningful talks will take place until the summit of EU leaders in Brussels on 17 October, just two weeks before Brexit day.
And despite adopting the title Minister for the Union as a mark of his determination to keep the UK together, he was left in no doubt that a no-deal outcome risked increasing pressure for a second referendum on Scottish independence.
The visit took place as a new Brexit “war cabinet”, created by Mr Johnson and codenamed XS, held the first of its fortnightly meetings to discuss EU withdrawal strategy with 94 days to go to the scheduled departure date. A second committee, called XO, chaired by Mr Gove and tasked with preparing for no deal, begins its daily meetings on Tuesday.
Visiting the Faslane naval base on the Clyde, Mr Johnson insisted his contacts with EU leaders had been “very, very positive”.
“They all know where we are, we can’t accept the backstop, it was thrown out three times, it won’t work, the withdrawal agreement as it stands is dead. I think everybody gets that,” he said.
“But at the same time it is right, as the government has said for the last three years, to prepare for no-deal and we’re also going to be doing that very actively and with great confidence.”
Asked if Mr Gove was right to say the government was now working on the assumption of no deal, the prime minister replied: “No, absolutely not. My assumption is that we can get a deal, we are aiming for a deal.”
But the pound dropped to its lowest level against the US dollar since March 2017 as currency traders appeared to concur with Mr Gove’s assessment rather than the prime minister’s.
The fall in sterling came after the CBI warned that neither the UK nor the EU were prepared for the disruption that a no-deal Brexit would cause.
And Ms Sturgeon said: “In reality, he is really pursuing a no-deal Brexit because that is the logic of the hardline position that he has taken.
“I think that’s extremely dangerous for Scotland, indeed for the whole of the UK. It is incumbent on all of us who think that that is the wrong outcome to do everything we possibly can to block it.”
Ms Sturgeon told Mr Johnson that the Scottish Parliament will continue after the summer break to consider a bill to enable a second independence referendum, and said it would not be democratic for him to try to block it.
Scottish Tory MP Douglas Ross retorted: “The SNP have tried to block Brexit at every turn, using it to promote their own independence agenda and making a no-deal outcome more likely.
“The only way to get a good Brexit deal for the whole of the United Kingdom is to be fully prepared to leave without one – the SNP have failed to fulfil their responsibility to ensure Scotland is prepared for all eventualities.”
And foreign secretary, Dominic Raab, indicated that the government was ready to impose direct rule in Northern Ireland to avoid a “vacuum” in the case of a no deal.
Swearing, personal abuse, racism, sexism, homophobia and other discriminatory or inciteful
                      language is not acceptable
Swearing, personal abuse, racism, sexism, homophobia and other discriminatory or inciteful
                      language is not acceptable
Want to discuss real-world problems, be involved in the most engaging discussions and hear from the
        journalists? Try Independent Minds free for 1 month. 
Independent Minds Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Minds.
      It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss
      real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when
      they can to create a true meeting of independent minds. The most insightful comments on all subjects
      will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies
      to your comment.
    

      The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to
      Independent Minds. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post
      the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please
      continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
    