
        Citing Western diplomats, Asharq Al-Awsat newspaper reports two strikes this month northeast of Baghdad mark an expansion of Israeli attacks against Iranian targets
    
An Israeli Air Force F-35 plane performs during a graduation ceremony for new pilots in the Hatzerim Air Force Base near Beersheba, Israel, on December 29, 2016.

                                                                                                        Israel struck Syrian army bases in the country's south, report says
                                                            

                                                                                                        Israel targeted sites of Iranian-backed forces in Syria attack, reports say
                                                            

                                                                                                        Hezbollah operative said killed by Israel recruited members in Syrian Golan Heights
                                                            
Israel has expanded the scope of its anti-Iranian attacks and struck targets in Iraq, the London-based Arabic newspaper Asharq Al-Awsat reported Tuesday.
                                                    
On July 19, the base was struck by an Israeli F-35 fighter jet, the sources added. The base was allegedly attacked again on Sunday.
                                                    
The base was formerly used by the People's Mujahedin of Iran, a militia that fought against the Iranian regime.
                                                    
Camp Ashraf is located around 80 km from the Iranian border and 40 km north-east  of Baghdad. The reports said that Iranian advisors were injured in the attack and that a shipment of ballistic missiles that had recently been brought from Iran to Iraq had been targeted. 
                                                    
Tell al-Harra is a strategically located area in southern Deraa province overlooking the Golan Heights. It was for many years a major Russian military radar outpost until rebels took it over in 2014 before it was again recaptured by the Syrian army last year.
                                                    
At least six people were injured in an Israeli rocket attack, a monitoring group reported on Wednesday.
                                                    

                                    Your comment was successfully submitted and will be published in
                                    accordance with site policy.
                                

									If you would like to be notified when your comment is published,
									please fill in your email address in the form below.
								

										Sex Parties, Drugs and Gay Escorts at the Pope's Residence: Undercover in the Vatican 
			
Haaretz.com, the online edition of Haaretz Newspaper in Israel, and analysis from Israel and the Middle East. Haaretz.com provides extensive and in-depth coverage of Israel, the Jewish World and the Middle East, including defense, diplomacy, the Arab-Israeli conflict, the peace process, Israeli politics, Jerusalem affairs, international relations, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, the Palestinian Authority, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, the Israeli business world and Jewish life in Israel and the Diaspora.