RCMP Manitoba quickly denied that anyone was in custody after a video on Sunday purported to show the capture of either Kam McLeod or Bryer Schmegelsky
A helicopter cuts through the air as it hovers above a house in York Landing, an isolated town in Manitoba with almost 450 inhabitants. A person with a shaky hand watches from a distance, pointing their camera phone at police vehicles with flashing lights as officers use K9 units to search the area for 19-year-old Kam McLeod and 18-year-old Bryer Schmegelsky.
It was eventually deleted, being dubbed a false alarm and another example of frayed nerves in the community.
But the 30 second video quickly circulated on Sunday through private messages on social media before being shared publicly, where reporters from around the world were ravenous to get their hands on it.
“Despite reports – there is no one in custody at this time,” read a tweet from RCMP Manitoba before sending out another that read “please do not disclose officer locations by posting photos of our officers in the community to social media.”
Please do not disclose officer locations by posting photos of our officers in the community to social media.
While the RCMP and military continue to scour for the suspects and stave off internet sleuths, residents in Gillam and York Landing, Man.  — the last two places where the alleged killers were spotted — say the global attention has shaken up daily life.
“It feels like a huge invasion, we’re at the end of the road,” said a Gillam resident who asked not to be named.
Employees from the local co-op grocery store in Gillam were instructed by supervisors to not speak about the manhunt and residents have kept to themselves since a week ago, when the suspected murderers were spotted in the small, working-class, hydro town with about 1,250 people.
“It’s just a small community that got put in this situation,” said an employee at Power Town Auto in Gillam who asked not to be named.
“A couple weeks ago you could leave your keys in the car overnight and they’d still be there the next day … now everyone is locking their doors where they never used to.”
Several surrounding Indigenous communities have also felt the magnitude of the investigation, according to a member of the Bear Clan Patrol, an Indigenous-led neighbourhood watch group that was invited by the Assembly of Manitoba Chiefs to help ease residents’ fears.

Canadian police continue their search for Kam McLeod and Bryer Schmegelsky, two teenage fugitives wanted in the murders of three people, near Gillam, Manitoba, Canada July 27, 2019, in this image obtained from social media.
“Up here, all the towns and communities, they look like ghost towns. Like, everyone’s inside. There’s a high level of stress, anxiety and fearfulness because they’re being kept in their houses,” Wade Taylor, a Bear Clan Patrol volunteer from Winnipeg, told the Canadian Press.
Taylor said almost everyone he talked to shared their thoughts about the search, which does not include the Bear Clan Patrol. No one thought the fugitives were in their own community — they believed they were more likely to be in one of the communities nearby, Taylor said.

RCMP search the area near Gillam, Man. in this photo posted to their Twitter page on Friday, July 26, 2019.
On Sunday, the RCMP sent units to York Landing, about 90 km away from Gillam by plane, after reports of two men in the area who matched the suspect descriptions.
Edgar Moose, a security guard at the York Landing Nursing Station, says local authorities are keeping the reserve “locked down.”
“We’re all taking extra precautions… they’re knocking on doors… everyone has to stay in their houses.”
The RCMP says the situation is ongoing and all possible resources are in York Landing to “safely apprehend two individuals matching the description of the suspects.”
An official statement from Chief Leroy Constant of the York Factory Cree Nation in York Landing urged everyone to remain indoors with windows and doors locked, mentioning 24-hour patrols in the remote community.
McLeod and Schmegelsky, from Port Alberni, B.C., face a second-degree murder charge in the death of University of British Columbia professor Leonard Dyck and are also suspects in the fatal shootings of Australian Lucas Fowler and his American girlfriend Chynna Deese.

The Royal Canadian Mounted Police released photos on July 23, 2019 of Kam McLeod, 19, and Bryer Schmegelsky, 18, from Port Alberni, British Columbia, triple murder suspects on the run in the central Canadian wilderness.
McLeod is described as 6’4″, about 170 pounds, with dark brown hair and facial hair and brown eyes. while Schmegelsky is described as 6’4″, about 170 pounds, with sandy brown hair, but authorities warn they may have changed their appearance.
This ‘dead-end’ Manitoba town is ‘the perfect place to get caught.’ So, where are the two B.C. fugitives? National Post·2 days ago
If you ‘inadvertently’ helped two suspected killers escape, please come forward, RCMP urge National Post·2 days ago
By clicking "Submit", I consent to receiving the above communication from Postmedia Network Inc. I understand that I may unsubscribe from these communications at any time.
At least 20 people, including Bombardier head, donated maximum allowed to both Liberals and Conservatives in 2018
B.C. man, linked to elaborate human smuggling operation that exploited international park, pleads guilty
'Not in the public interest': Chief electoral officer decides not to move voting day despite Jewish holiday conflict
Man charged with murder after four found dead in Toronto-area home allegedly sent details of slayings to gaming buddies

						Robert Ballard believes Earhart went missing when she emergency-landed on Nikumaroro 82 years ago, and he will be the one to find the plane					

						Nadal paid about three and a half times more than the pre-sale estimate of $160,000 for the Moon Shoes, handmade for runners at the 1972 Olympic Trials					

						It is unknown whether the fact many of the snow globes featured statues of llamas and saguaro cactus aroused the curiosity of a border agent					