
                        هذا الموقع يستخدم ملف تعريف الارتباط Cookie "ملفات الكوكي":
                    

				This screen grab image taken on January 2, 2018 from a video released by Boko Haram shows their fighters during a Christmas Day attack on a military checkpoint in Molai village on the outskirts of the northeast Nigerian city of Maiduguri. (File photo: AFP)
			
Boko Haram gunmen on Saturday killed 23 mourners in Borno state in Nigeria’s restive northeast after they attended a funeral, local militia and residents said.
At around 1030 GMT, the attackers on three motorbikes opened fire on a group of men as they walked back from a funeral in Nganzai district near the state capital Maiduguri, local militia leader Bunu Bukar Mustapha said.
“Our men recovered 23 dead bodies from the scene of the attack, which happened this morning,” Mustapha told AFP.
The men were returning to Badu Kuluwu from nearby Goni Abachari village where they had attended funeral prayers for a relative, Mustapha said.
“I received calls from Nganzai that Boko Haram killed 23 people near Badu Kuluwu this morning,” said the official, who asked not to be identified for his own safety.
Local hunters and militia recovered the bodies after survivors returned to the village and alerted them, Nganzai resident Saleh Masida said.
Boko Haram and its ISIS-supported ISWAP splinter have intensified attacks on civilian and military targets in recent months.
Late Thursday, Boko Haram fighters attacked a camp for displaced people outside Maiduguri, killing two residents and looting food supplies after burning a nearby military base.
The decade-long conflict has spilled over into neighboring Chad, Niger, and Cameroon, claiming around 27,000 lives and forcing more than two million people to flee their homes.
About 30 people were killed, including 16 Cameroonian soldiers, in an attack carried out by extremist group Boko Haram ...
Five Nigerian soldiers have been killed and a number are missing after an ambush by Boko Haram’s ISIS -backed ...