It's possible one or two Fed officials, and maybe even three, could disagree with the central bank's decision to cut rates Wednesday.
Energy giant BP reported better-than-expected second-quarter profits on Tuesday, citing a solid upstream and downstream performance.
Capital One says a data breach identified earlier this month exposed personal information of its customers, including social security details and bank account numbers.
The stock closed Monday up 788% since its May initial public offering and has drawn interest from short sellers.
For the first time since the financial crisis, companies have given back more to shareholders than they are making in free cash flow.
Singapore's economy is set to grow between 1.5% and 2% this year, according to Steve Cochrane, chief Asia Pacific economist for Moody's Analytics.
Sen. Elizabeth Warren, seeking to extend her momentum among liberal voters before the second Democratic presidential debate, on Monday proposed sweeping changes in how America...
Hundreds of Hong Kong protesters blocked train services during the early morning rush hour on Tuesday, causing commuter chaos in the latest anti-government campaign to roil...
In just three years, payments platform Airwallex has achieved much-coveted unicorn status, completing the company's transformation from a humble coffee shop.
Amazon-owned PillPack and Surescripts are doing battle over access to data about patients' prescriptions.
The Trump administration is proposing a rule that would require hospitals to publish the prices that are negotiated with insurers or risk being fined.
Stocks in Asia Pacific edged up on Tuesday as investors awaited developments from U.S.-China trade talks this week in Shanghai. The Bank of Japan also opted to keep monetary...
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed could help 9/11 families in Saudi Arabia lawsuit if death penalty dropped: Letter
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, accused mastermind of the 9/11 attacks, might help the families of victims of those attacks with testimony in their civil lawsuit against the government of Saudi Arabia if the U.S. government abandons a bid to execute him via military tribunal, a court filing revealed.
The senior al-Qaeda lieutenant has been held for nearly 13 years at the U.S. military base in Guantanamo, Cuba, where he and four other accused terrorists are charged with war crimes related to the Sept. 11 attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.
A lawyer for the families said that the plaintiffs' legal team had  "reached out [to KSM's lawyers] because obviously we want to do everything we can to document the Saudi involvement in 9/11."
In a file photo Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the alleged Sept. 11 mastermind, is seen shortly after his capture during a raid in Pakistan Saturday March 1, 2003, in this photo obtained by the Associated Press.
Lawyers for the victims' families, in a letter to the judge overseeing the case, said they had learned from Mohammed's lawyers that he is not willing to be deposed in that civil case  "at the present time."
 "In the absence of a potential death sentence much broader cooperation would be possible," KSM's attorneys told the plaintiffs' lawyers, according to their letter filed Friday with Judge Sarah Netburn in U.S. District Court in Manhattan.
The 55-year-old KSM has been held for nearly 13 years at the U.S. military base at Guantanamo, Cuba, where he and four other accused terrorists are charged with war crimes related to the 9/11 attacks using three hijacked airplanes on the World Trade Center in New York City and the Pentagon, along with the fourth hijacking of a commercial airliner that crashed near Shanksville, Pennsylvania, after first being flown toward Washington, D.C. Fifteen of the 19 hijackers were Saudi nationals.
what many call torture — that included repeated waterboarding and sleep deprivation — before he was sent to Guantanamo.
The letter to the judge noted that lawyers for KSM's co-defendant at Guantanamo, Mustafa al-Hawsawi,  "is presently awaiting his client's instructions as to how he wants to proceed" with a request that he give a deposition in the case. And counsel for another defendant at Guantanamo, Ali Abdul Aziz Ali, told the plaintiffs' lawyers that Ali "respectfully declines to be deposed" in light of "memory and cognitive difficulties, among other issues."
James Kreindler, a lawyer for the victims' families, in an interview with CNBC said,  "I don't know" if he believed KSM's offer was serious.
Kreindler said that plaintiffs had  "reached out [to KSM] because obviously we want to do everything we can to document the Saudi involvement in 9/11."
 ""I have no idea whether he'll ever cooperate," Kreindler said. "Guys on our team have been pressing this ... [for] a while."
Kreindler also said,  "I'm very optimistic about the 9/11 families winning the case against Saudi Arabia."
Robert Haefele, another attorney who signed the letter with Kreindler, also said he did not know if KSM's offer of help is genuine, but also said that the victims' families  "don't plan on leaving any stone unturned."
 "The families have persisted in their efforts for more than a decade," Haefele said. "Our view is that the dam of information now has a crack in it."
 "The families just aren't going away. We'll keep pulling at the strings until we get to the truth of the matter."
Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis.