WARNING: This story contains graphic details. A 23-year-old man charged in the homicides of four people inside a Markham, Ont., home appears to have sent online messages to friends about the killings shortly after they occurred, according to two people who received them.
A 23-year-old man charged in the homicides of four people inside a Markham, Ont., home appears to have sent online messages to friends about the killings shortly after they occurred, according to two people who received them.
"I've just slaughtered my entire family, and will most likely spend life in jail if i manage to survive," a user going by the name Menhaz posted to Discord, software used by hundreds of millions of gamers around the world to communicate online. 
"i wanted them to die so that they didn't suffer knowing how much of a pathetic subhuman i was. its all very selfish."
Those two people told CBC News that, because they've known him online for years, they know the user known as Menhaz is Menhaz Zaman. 
CBC News has agreed to protect the identities of those two individuals and has not independently confirmed that the user Menhaz is the same person charged in the deaths.
The messages were accompanied by several extremely graphic photographs of dead bodies and bloody weapons. CBC News has seen the photos but has not been able to confirm they are from the Markham crime scene. 
Ammara Riaz, a neighbour of the family who previously lived in their home — as a tenant, for nearly five years — confirmed that a profile picture attached to the account of user Menhaz was that of Zaman.
The user Menhaz wrote that he had lied to his parents for three years about attending university when he actually left school after just one year. Instead of attending classes, he wrote, he would go to a local mall each day and sometimes work out at a nearby gym.
He wrote that he became depressed during his year at university, "became an atheist, and ultimately created this plan."
"I did this bc [because] I dont want my parents to feel the shame of having a son like me," the user Menhaz wrote in the messages.
"I choose to kill them instead out of my own cowardess," he continued. "I know it might sound confusing but whats done is done and what had been planned has been concluded."
Police have not commented on the messages or the photographs, and Pattenden declined to reveal the causes of death and whether police recovered any weapons from the scenes. 
It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges.