Ladakh MP Rues Lack of Basic Facilities in Village of Local Who Alerted Army About 1999 Pak Intrusion
The Mahalaxmi Express, which left from Mumbai for Kolhapur, had been stranded as the railway tracks were flooded as the Ulhas river overflowed after torrential rains lashed the area. 
Of these, the NDRF rescued 550 passengers. The Navy and the Army, Thane Corporation, fire brigade, villagers living in the vicinity and several other agencies were also involved in the rescue operations.
Officials involved in the rescue operation said the nine pregnant women and a one-month-old baby girl were also safe.
Authorities had called in the NDRF and sought help from the Navy to rescue the stranded passengers of the train, which left Mumbai for Kolhapur on Friday night but was unable to travel beyond Chamtoli where it was stranded since early on Saturday, an official said. 
"Due to a raging Ulhas river, the Mahalaxmi Express train got stuck at Chamtoli within the limits of Badlapur. The passengers were safe, but the only concern was a rise in water level on the tracks," said Resident Deputy Collector (Thane) Shivaji Patil said, adding that two NDRF teams were rushed to the spot. "Helicopter services and naval assistance have also been sought." 
Union Home Minister Amit Shah praised the rescue teams and said the Centre was closely monitoring the situation.
Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai earlier spoke to Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis and assured him that all central assistance will be provided to the state, the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said in a tweet. 
In a statement, the Union Home Ministry said it swiftly deputed the NDRF and mobilised support from the forces to rescue the passengers, adding that Shah closely monitored the rescue operations.
On getting the information around 8.50 am about the train being stranded, the ministry immediately deputed two NDRF teams each from Mumbai and Pune, along with nine boats and other necessary equipment. The teams reached the spot around 9.40 am, it said. On the MHA's request, the Defence Ministry deployed Navy and Air force teams.
Naval teams reached the site with specialist divers. Two Mi-17 helicopters of the Indian Air Force were also pressed into service to assist the in rescue operation, the statement said, adding that two columns of the Army and 130 trained staff, food packages, water and rescue material were also deployed.
The Ministry of Railway mobilised all necessary resources, including a relief train, and provided medical assistance and refreshment to passengers.
Despite waterlogged roads, tough and undulating terrain, the NDRF and the Navy teams rescued all stranded passengers and railway staff from the train.
Triple Talaq Bill for Gender Dignity, Says Govt; Congress Argues Pushing Women to Court Not Empowerment
CNN name, logo and all associated elements ® and © 2016 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. A Time Warner Company. All rights reserved. CNN and the CNN logo are registered marks of Cable News Network, LP LLLP, displayed with permission. Use of the CNN name and/or logo on or as part of NEWS18.com does not derogate from the intellectual property rights of Cable News Network in respect of them. © Copyright Network18 Media and Investments Ltd 2016. All rights reserved.