As part of the documentary for BBC Radio 1’s Newsbeat, he bought and sampled cannabis oil, before flushing the rest of it down the toilet before his return flight to the UK.
Lamb, a long-term advocate of the legalisation of cannabis and who previously tried the drug as a student, told the programme: “Taking this oil is purely for sleeping, for relaxation, I will take it before bed and before my flight home.
“I was really anxious because I had the hearing of the technology and science select committee the next day and I was travelling back overnight, and I just thought if I get back having had no sleep it will be a challenge.”
It just demonstrates to me how ludicrous it is that we continue to criminalise people who use cannabis
He said it was “ridiculous” that he had to dispose of it down the toilet before returning to the UK “because to bring it back into the country would have been a criminal act”.
He said he did not feel “high” but it did help him fall asleep. “I slept incredibly well. I took the drops and I slept very well on the plane home, I actually slept through breakfast.”
Lamb told the Guardian ahead of the programme, which is due to appear on iPlayer on Monday: “I wanted to demonstrate that a very nondescript act like buying cannabis oil to help you sleep and putting a couple of drops under your tongue amounts to a criminal act.
“It just demonstrates to me how ludicrous it is that we continue to criminalise people who use cannabis with all the disastrous consequences of prohibition, like extreme violence that goes with it always in the poorest communities, the billions of pounds going to organised crime on a plate and the criminalisation of young people. I wanted to demonstrate the approach we have at the moment is ludicrous and there is a much better evidence-based approach.”
In the programme, Lammy said he had a significant shift on his position and said he now backs legalisation in the UK.
“I want the market legalised and regulated, taken away from criminal gangs, young people not criminalised by use and properly educated. But I want to see the strength of the stuff reduced, labelled and properly organised in our country,” he said.
Djanogly did not back legalisation, but said he remained open to the idea. He said: “I think we have got a lot to learn before the legalisation of recreational cannabis, which I think will happen at some point. I think we’re on a 10-to-15 year cycle, which would mirror what has happened in Canada.”