Iran has previously slammed the move as “provocative”, criticising a wider British proposal to create a European-led naval mission to escort tankers in the Gulf. 
Dominic Raab, the foreign secretary, urged Iran to follow international rules and release the vessel, which together with its crew, remains under the control of the guards. 
Crew members of the British-flagged tanker Stena Impero, that was seized by Iran in the Strait of Hormuz
A satellite image of the Iranian port city of Bandar Abbas reveals the presence of the seized British oil tanker, the Stena Impero on July 22
Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) claims to have seized Stena Impero at the Strait of Hormuz with 23 crew on board on 20 July
Iranian Revolutionary Guards patrolling around the captured British-flagged tanker Stena Impero as it's anchored off the Iranian port city of Bandar Abbas
A satellite image of the Iranian port city of Bandar Abbas reveals the presence of the seized British oil tanker, the Stena Impero on July 22
Crew members of the British-flagged tanker Stena Impero, that was seized by Iran in the Strait of Hormuz
A satellite image of the Iranian port city of Bandar Abbas reveals the presence of the seized British oil tanker, the Stena Impero on July 22
Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) claims to have seized Stena Impero at the Strait of Hormuz with 23 crew on board on 20 July
Iranian Revolutionary Guards patrolling around the captured British-flagged tanker Stena Impero as it's anchored off the Iranian port city of Bandar Abbas
A satellite image of the Iranian port city of Bandar Abbas reveals the presence of the seized British oil tanker, the Stena Impero on July 22
“If the Iranians want to come of the dark and be accepted as a responsible member of the international community they need to adhere to rules-based system of the international community,” he added.
Tehran is furious with Britain and European powers for failing to protect it from renewed sanctions imposed by the United States after Washington withdrew from a nuclear agreement between Iran and world powers.
Under the 2015 deal, international sanctions on Iran were relaxed in exchange for Tehran curbing its nuclear programme.
Mr Raab said in another interview on Monday that the seizure of these ships was not equivalent and ruled out an exchange of vessels. 
There was no confirmation or denial from the UK authorities of the audio and video released by the Iranians on Monday, which they said showed their forces warning off a British warship. 
“You are required not to interfere in these issues,” the IRGC navy representative can be heard saying, in the clip posted by semi-official news agency Tasnim.
“This is British warship foxtrot two three six. I am in the vicinity of an internationally recognised strait with a merchant vessel in my vicinity conducting transit passage,” a voice with a British accent replies.
Defence secretary Ben Wallace said on Sunday that the UK authorities were working to scale down the tensions.
“While we continue to push for a diplomatic resolution that will make this possible again without military accompaniment, the Royal Navy will continue to provide a safeguard for UK vessels until this is the reality.”
However, the secretary of Iran’s Expediency Council has said that Iran will not let the United States and the United Kingdom take control of the Strait of Hormuz. 
“Americans and Britons have been constantly flaring up tensions in the region and recently they did so in the Persian Gulf, pretending that they have control over the Strait of Hormuz and vessel movements there. We will definitely not allow this to happen,” Mohsen Rezaei said, according to the conservative Mehr news agency. 
“We live in the world’s energy hub. Any kind of instability and conflict in this region would damage the global economy, peace and security.”
Swearing, personal abuse, racism, sexism, homophobia and other discriminatory or inciteful
                      language is not acceptable
Swearing, personal abuse, racism, sexism, homophobia and other discriminatory or inciteful
                      language is not acceptable
Want to discuss real-world problems, be involved in the most engaging discussions and hear from the
        journalists? Try Independent Minds free for 1 month. 
Independent Minds Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Minds.
      It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss
      real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when
      they can to create a true meeting of independent minds. The most insightful comments on all subjects
      will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies
      to your comment.
    

      The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to
      Independent Minds. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post
      the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please
      continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
    