Just two months ago David Frost said he was opposed to the approach advocated “by the leaders of both major political parties”, and argued that EU rights should not automatically be written into law after Brexit.
Mr Frost, former chief executive of the London Chamber of Commerce and Industry, was appointed last week by Mr Johnson to replace Olly Robbins as Downing Street’s EU chief, a role that will see him leading any future talks with Brussels.
“Business organisations have often in the past criticised the EU’s drift towards heavy labour market regulation,” Mr Frost said in May 2019 in an article reproduced on the London Chamber of Commerce and Industry website.
“So I will take some persuading it will be a good outcome if the EU is able to set new UK labour market rules without any UK say – as currently seems to be envisaged by the leaders of both major political parties.” 
Theresa May committed the government to maintaining the current level of European Union workers rights, and also went even further, legislating for parliament to automatically be given votes on staying aligned with the bloc’s rules when future legislation emerges. The “dynamic alignment” plans were unveiled by the government in a failed bid to get Labour MPs to back the withdrawal agreement.
Additionally, during the transition period included in the withdrawal agreement, the UK would have to accept rights with no say at all, as rejected by Mr Frost.
Brussels has also suggested the UK would have to stay aligned with future EU workers’ rights, as well as environmental and social legislation, past the end of the transition period – if it wants a trade agreement. Chief negotiator Michel Barnier has said the bloc would seek non-regression clauses to ensure Britain does not backslide on rules and try to undercut its neighbours. 
Commenting on the official’s views, TUC general secretary Frances O’Grady said: “Boris Johnson claims that he intends to enhance rights at work after Brexit. He and his advisers should be focused on delivering that promise.
“But instead they’re threatening a catastrophic no deal, which would strip away existing legal protections and leave essential rights open to attack. Working people must not be dragged off this cliff edge without getting a Final Say.”
A UK Government spokesperson said: “The UK has a world-leading record in protecting workers’ rights, setting the highest standard, and a labour market we can be proud of, with more people in work than ever before. We are determined to maintain this record of leadership after we leave the EU, with or without a deal.”
In an email to EU member state diplomats revealed on Monday, the new Downing Street EU adviser, a former diplomat who has worked in Brussels, warned that they should not “underestimate” his new boss Mr Johnson.
In his first contact with his counterparts after taking the job, he told them that EU governments should “be in no doubt” about the new administration’s commitment to leaving the EU on 31 October.
Business organisations have often in the past criticised the EU’s drift towards heavy labour market regulation
“I will save the substantive issues for another day, other than to note Prime Minister Johnson’s statement in parliament [last week], which sets out our approach, and to underline that you should be in no doubt about this government’s commitment to the 31 October date,” he said in an email to member state diplomats. “I would also add that many people are inclined to underestimate Boris Johnson, and I would urge you not to do so.”
Mr Frost also hailed his predecessor, who he said “deserved better” than the personal criticism he had received in the press.
“I would like to conclude with a tribute to Olly. It is obvious that this new government does not take the same view as its predecessor on Brexit policy, but that should not detract from the fact that he has worked tirelessly over the last three years to implement the mandate he was given and has come in for quite a lot of personal criticism as result,” he wrote in the email, which was sent last week.
“He has deserved better, and I know that Prime Minister Johnson appreciates his service and wishes him well for what comes next.”
Pro-Brexit leave the European Union supporters attend a rally in Parliament Square after the final leg of the "March to Leave" in London
The protest march which started on March 16 in Sunderland, north east England, finished on what was the original date for Brexit to happen before the recent extension
Dedicated anti-Brexit campaigner Steve Bray and likewise pro-Brexit campaigner Joseph Afrane go head to head near the Houses of Parliament
Pro-Brexit leave the European Union supporters attend a rally in Parliament Square after the final leg of the "March to Leave" in London
The protest march which started on March 16 in Sunderland, north east England, finished on what was the original date for Brexit to happen before the recent extension
Dedicated anti-Brexit campaigner Steve Bray and likewise pro-Brexit campaigner Joseph Afrane go head to head near the Houses of Parliament
Mr Robbins came to be disliked by some Brexiteers, who considered the civil servant to be working to frustrate Brexit. Criticism came to a head after he was overheard in a hotel bar in Brussels outlining parts of the government’s strategy to get its withdrawal agreement through the House of Commons.
Speaking in the Commons last week, the new prime minister, Mr Johnson, said he would not conduct any further Brexit talks with the European Union unless it agreed to drop the controversial Irish border backstop from the withdrawal agreement. The EU has responded by saying it would stand by the policy and that it is prepared for a no-deal Brexit.
In the Commons on Thursday, Mr Johnson told MPs that workers’ rights would “not only” be protected after Brexit but that with “the freedoms that we will obtain” the UK would “where necessary be able to enhance” protections.
Swearing, personal abuse, racism, sexism, homophobia and other discriminatory or inciteful
                      language is not acceptable
Swearing, personal abuse, racism, sexism, homophobia and other discriminatory or inciteful
                      language is not acceptable
Want to discuss real-world problems, be involved in the most engaging discussions and hear from the
        journalists? Try Independent Minds free for 1 month. 
Independent Minds Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Minds.
      It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss
      real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when
      they can to create a true meeting of independent minds. The most insightful comments on all subjects
      will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies
      to your comment.
    

      The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to
      Independent Minds. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post
      the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please
      continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
    