A group of cross-party MPs who've been on a fact-finding trip to Canada predict the UK will fully legalise cannabis use within five to ten years.
Mr Lammy, alongside Conservative Jonathan Djanogly and Liberal Democrat Sir Norman Lamb were all filmed on their journey for a Radio 1 Newsbeat documentary called Legalising Weed: Canada's Story.
Currently cannabis is designated as a Class B drug in the UK and anyone caught with it could face up to five years in prison.
However, there has been a shift in approach towards medicinal cannabis products, which can now be legally prescribed to some patients. 
It's argued that where cannabis has been legalised for medical use, authorised recreational use often follows.

                    Tottenham MP David Lammy visits a legally-grown cannabis crop in Canada
                
"I want the market legalised, regulated and taken away from crime gangs," said Tottenham MP David Lammy after returning from visiting Toronto.
"Taking this oil is purely for sleeping for relaxation, I will take it before bed and before my flight home."
"I was really anxious because I was chairing the technology and science select committee and I was travelling back over night, and I thought if I get back with no sleep it will be a challenge."
The trip was organised by a UK-based campaign group, Volte Face, which wants the UK to legalise the drug.

                    Scott Boyes says his company wants to make profit out of selling cannabis responsibly in the UK
                
"We're moving it away from organised crime to a legitimate commercial industry," Scott Boyes, MPX CEO, told us. 
"A lot of the money we have raised has come out of the UK, so I don't consider it interfering with other people's politics and a lot of the expenses have been born by themselves."
But the MPs also realise Canada's experience has not been without problems. In the documentary we hear from Piper Courtenay whose title is Cannabis Editor for a weekly newspaper. 
She describes how technically illegal, but often described as "grey", cannabis providers still thrive. 
The limits on fully licensed products mean there's still a market for things like edibles and other cannabis products.
"It's certainly better than the legal product I have tried so far, because they genuinely care about growing good craft cannabis," she tells us.
All three MPs on the trip believed that the UK would follow Canada's lead and legalise cannabis for recreational use in the next decade. 
But Conservative MP for Huntingdon, Jonathan Djanogly, was perhaps unsurprisingly given his party name, the most conservative with his predictions.
"I think we have got a lot to learn before the legalisation of recreational cannabis, which I think will happen at some point," Jonathan Djanogly told us.
However, the government told Newsbeat it "has no intention of changing the law" when it comes to legalisation.
A Home Office spokesman said: "The legalisation of these substances would not eliminate the crime committed by the illicit trade, nor would it address the harms associated with drug dependence and the misery they can cause to families and society."