We use cookies to improve our service for you. You can find more information in our data protection declaration.
A heat wave that brought record temperatures to Germany has moved over Nordic countries. Scientists are warning of possibly accelerated melting of ice in Greenland.
Sweden experienced some of the highest temperatures in decades in the far north, with the town of Markusvinsa recording 34.8 C, breaking a record from 1945.
Heat warnings have been issued in Sweden, Norway and Finland. In Finland, police even warned motorists to be especially careful of thirsty moose crossing roads in search of water.
The Norwegian Meteorological Institute said 20 different places in southern Norway had experienced "tropical nights," with temperatures remaining above 20 C throughout the night.
It said it still needed to "double check" the measurement in Laksfors. If proven correct, it would equal the previous record set in Nesbyen in 1970.
The German weather service said on Friday that this week marked the first time since records began that temperatures in Germany had exceeded 40 degrees for three days in a row.
As the heat wave moves north, climate scientists have warned of possible accelerated melting of the world's second-largest ice sheet in Greenland, contributing to global sea level rise. Scientists estimate that if the entire ice sheet were to melt, the sea level could go up by about 6 meters (20 feet), affecting many coastal dwellers around the world, including those in large cities.
Climate scientists say the abnormal temperature increases are an additional sign of man-made global warming through emissions of greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide and methane.
Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.
Extreme heat was felt across Europe, from the United Kingdom to Luxembourg, and in cities like Paris, which suffered its hottest day ever. Germany recorded 42 degrees Celsius, its highest temperature since records began. (25.07.2019)
  
Researchers are honing in on a little-studied but significant consequence of climate change: male infertility. Could this potential cause of extinction and biodiversity loss also threaten the human species? (13.11.2018)
  
A record high temperature in Germany is forecast to stand for only a day as Europe's second summer heat wave bites. Ships have been stranded, rail travelers urged to delay trips and tigers fed chicken ice blocks. (25.07.2019)
  
A US scientific agency has reported record-breaking temperatures in several regions across the globe, including Europe. Scientists have warned of the destabilizing effect of carbon emissions on Earth's climate. (18.07.2019)
  
Extreme heat was felt across Europe, from the United Kingdom to Luxembourg, and in cities like Paris, which suffered its hottest day ever. Germany recorded 42 degrees Celsius, its highest temperature since records began. 
A record high temperature in Germany is forecast to stand for only a day as Europe's second summer heat wave bites. Ships have been stranded, rail travelers urged to delay trips and tigers fed chicken ice blocks. 