News Corp is a network of leading companies in the worlds of diversified media, news, education, and information services.
UK weather forecast – Britain battles hellish floods as drivers stranded after thunderstorms dump two weeks’ worth of rain in just 24 hours
DRIVERS have been forced to abandon their vehicles after hellish floods saw two weeks' worth of rain fall in 24 hours across the UK.
Thunderstorms left cars submerged under several feet of water as torrential rain sparked travel chaos today.
 This Lamborghini crashed into the barrier after the driver lost control on standing water on the M66 in Greater Manchester
Northern Rail have also reported disruption to lines between Wigan Wallgate and Atherton because of flooding.
Guests at Derbyshire's Y Not festival were forced to push their cars through six inches of mud this morning. Woodchips have been spread out over the ground to make it safer.
 These tourists are trying to stay dry under umbrellas and blankets whilst out punting on the River Cam in Cambridge this afternoon
Forecasters said parts of the North West had seen 40mm to 50mm of rain in about 24 hours, with 52.2mm recorded between 11am on Saturday and 11am on Sunday at Greenfield near Oldham.
Meteorologist Helen Roberts said that the monthly average rainfall for the North West in July was 89.5mm.
She added: "This is a lot of rain to fall in the space of 24 hours, especially given the rain has been very consistent and there have been heavy bursts within it."
A complex weather front will extend diagonally across the UK, all the way from Argyll in western Scotland to Kent in south east England.
Beneath it, heavy thundery showers have the capacity to cause dreadful driving conditions and flooding in homes.
A Met Office spokesman said:“There is a small chance that homes and businesses could be flooded, causing damage to some buildings.
“Where flooding occurs, there is a slight chance of delays or cancellations to train and bus services.
It comes after air passengers suffered major disruption on Friday due to the heatwave and a technical problem with the UK's air traffic control system.
Passengers using Heathrow and Gatwick airports had to contend with delays due to the extreme conditions across Europe.
a technical problem with a system at the Swanwick Air Traffic Control centre had been identified shortly after noon, which restricted the rate of arrivals.
The Environment Agency has issued a flood warning for the River Trent at Stoke on Trent, saying homes are at risk.
Forecasters say 20 to 30mm (an inch) of rain could fall within two to three hours, with 40-60mm (up to two inches) possible in a few locations.
 A group of party-goers dressed in Where's Wally? costumes have an impromptu dance-off on the pavement
 This woman tries to keep herself dry with her Baywatch Float as others dressed as lifeguards accompany her