

        NATO has confirmed that two US soldiers have been killed in Afghanistan, bringing the death toll to three this month in two separate incidents. At least 11 Americans have died in Afghanistan this year.

    
The NATO-led Resolute Support mission made the announcement on Monday, providing no further details on the circumstances in which the servicemen perished. Their identities were not disclosed, in accordance with the US military rules that require informing the next of kin first.
The US military had suffered another casualty on July 13, in an attack that was claimed by the Taliban. So far, the main adversary of the NATO-led forces in Afghanistan has been silent about the new US casualties.
The NATO announcement follows the Sunday suicide bomber attack on Amrullah Saleh, Afghan President Ashraf Ghani's running mate in the upcoming September elections. The death toll from the blast reached 20 on Monday, as new bodies were recovered during cleanup of the bombing site. At least 50 other people were injured. T
hough the US and its allies have been entangled into the Afghanistan war for nearly 18 years, the militants still control much of the country. Moreover, the NATO-backed government has been steadily losing ground to Taliban over the recent years.

                US Supreme Court allows Trump to spend $2.5bn in Pentagon funds on border wall            

                Troubled nuclear fuel plant in S. Carolina kept radioactive trash in LEAKY & RUSTY container            

                Washington greenlights military sales to Pakistan & India, months after air skirmish            

                ‘Non-titled males’ & imperial measures: Jacob Rees-Mogg mocked for archaic staff style guide            

                Putin goes to SEA BOTTOM in ‘thrilling’ tribute to mysteriously lost WWII submarine (VIDEOS)            

                UFC 240: Cris Cyborg returns to winning ways, but was that her last fight in the UFC?            

                ‘Abandoned’ Brexit bus is the political metaphor Twitter has been waiting for (PHOTOS)            

                Tanker seizure by Britain breaches nuclear deal – senior Iranian diplomat            

                ‘Institutional memory of BBC on Brexit is sketchy’: UK foreign sec takes sly dig at broadcaster            

                Talks only possible with ‘tangible results,’ but US does not ‘seek dialogue’ – Tehran            