A 'city-killer' asteroid got scarily close to Earth yesterday, and astronomers didn't know about it until it was just days away
A 'city-killer' asteroid got scarily close to Earth yesterday, and astronomers didn't know about it until it was just days away
Astronaut says a neglected telescope is NASA's best chance of defending Earth from 'city killer' asteroids - 'for God's sake, fund it'
Although 2019 OK was wider than the Statue of Liberty is tall, it's relatively small compared to the 6-mile-wide rock that hit modern-day Mexico and wiped out the dinosaurs 66 million years ago. NASA tracks about 90% of those types of big asteroids (the ones half a mile in diameter or more).
In 1908, a space rock estimated to be several hundred feet in diameter (a bit smaller than 2019 OK) screamed into Earth's atmosphere traveling many thousands of miles per hour. It exploded over the remote Tunguska region of Siberia with the force of a thermonuclear weapon,
Telescopes detect the sunlight that these asteroids reflect, but the smaller the asteroid, the fainter the reflection, and the harder it is for a telescope to spot the rock. 
"People are only sort of realizing what happened pretty much after it's already flung past us," he added.
This image was captured by OSIRIS-REx's MapCam imager on Dec. 17, 2018 as the spacecraft flew under Bennu's south pole during the mission's Preliminary Survey of the asteroid.
Having as much advance notice of an impending collision as possible is imperative, because more lead-up time gives scientists a better chance of figuring out how to divert an asteroid from its current path.
But for this tractor plan to work, scientists would need to know about NEOs years ahead. And to give that kind of notice, researchers at space agencies like NASA would have to make asteroid-detection work a bigger priority.
THE AI IN TRANSPORTATION REPORT: How automakers can use artificial intelligence to cut costs, open new revenue streams, and adapt to the digital age
EXCLUSIVE: The shocking scale of child porn has led to more trafficking and abuse of kids, says Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi
Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Jio wins again, government okays fine of ₹30.5 billion from Vodafone Idea, Airtel
WhatsApp Payments battling Paytm, Google Pay and PhonePe for India's $1 trillion opportunity by end of year
Indians bought OnePlus 6T, Samsung Galaxy M10 and Apple XR within minutes during the Amazon Prime Day Sale
A 'city-killer' asteroid got scarily close to Earth yesterday, and astronomers didn't know about it until it was just days away