Britannia left staff who intervened injured, as passengers used furniture and plates as weapons. Witnesses told me they were so frightened they had to hide, as family groups fought.
The violence occurred on the final leg of a week long cruise to Norway’s fjords. I became aware of trouble when officers made an emergency tannoy at 2AM for security staff to rush to the 16th floor restaurant. I went too and found passengers shocked by what they’d seen. One witness, part of a group involved in the trouble, explained to staff that things kicked off when another passenger appeared dressed as a clown. This upset one of their party because they’d specifically booked a cruise with no fancy dress. It led to a violent confrontation.
Here’s what happens when a tank T-bones a car at speed. SPOILER: it is what you likely expect to happen.
We’ve been living, full-time in a 40-foot motorhome for a few years now! It’s been great! But we’re thinking seriously about downsizing.
A plane made an emergency landing at Raleigh-Durham International Airport earlier this week after “mechanical issues arose,” according to reports. “The flight crew of Delta flight 1425 from Atlanta to Baltimore elected to divert to Raleigh, N.C., out of an abundance of caution after receiving an indication of a possible issue with one of the […]
The field of internet technology is wide open, for those who know their way around it. And with the infrastructure that drives it changing every day, the best way to learn is to dive right in – with a credible guide, of course. Here are 8 online courses in IT, networking and security that will […]
Hey, we get it. Not everybody’s a master chef – or even a chef. And when all you see on the recipe is prep time, cooking even the simplest meals can seem like a hassle. But trust us, the simple act of dicing up some fresh veggies can make you feel in control of your […]
Virtual Private Networks can make the internet a much safer place, but that’s not all. They can offer freedom from local content restrictions, anonymity and even protection from popup ads – and a really good one will do all that while still keeping you surfing at top speed. Before you go browsing the web, browse […]
We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.