Unlike most summer festivals, music takes a backseat to politics at Tusványos, the annual meeting of Fidesz's prominent representatives in 
Transylvania, Romania. As every year, the main headliner of the 2019 event was Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, who gave his ideological briefing laying down the foundations of his government's upcoming policies in his speech on the last day of the festival 
He said that this new era since 2010, the era of national transition placed the emphasis on the interests of the community and after the internationalist and socialist successors of the communist regime were defeated between 1994 and 2010, their mission now is to maintain and reproduce the mass support of this system and to beat back the attacks against it. 
"The nation is in possession of the political, economic, and soon enough, the physical means to defend themselves and their sovereignty."
Orbán noted that the nation had already defended themselves against the attacks of Brussels, the IMF, and the migrants. He said that Hungary is on an encouraging path, finances are in order, businesses are getting stronger, wages are increasing, and they are building the nation and families - but as always, this is under threats coming from outside Hungary. In Orbán's assessment, the first threat was already averted, as he said:
"I wouldn't want to lay out the full extent of the truth, but we have taken complicated steps, and we have successfully tackled Soros's candidates and prevented ideological guerillas from taking EU top jobs. The European Commission is lead by a practical-minded mother of seven." 
He noted that the Spitzenkandidat system did not die, it only found its place: its goal was never to take the Council's right to nominate the President of the Commission - the Commission should be beholden to the Council. According to Orbán, the real sense behind the Spitzenkandidat system was for voters to have an influence over the EU's top jobs, and European voters have that by determining the composition of the European Parliament. Orbán would further diminish the Commission's significance, he said a council of Europe's ministers of interior affairs should be set up to deal with all questions surrounding migration.
"Strong nerves will indeed be necessary for the upcoming rule-of-law debates, though not for defending our position but for resisting to laugh in the face of our critics."
said Orbán, and continued to ridicule Finland. Orbán noted that the Finnish Academy of Sciences operates under the control of the Minister of Education, Finland has no Constitutional Court, judges are appointed by the President of the Republic based on the suggestion of the Minister of Justice, and he asked what would happen if Hungary were to introduce these measures. 
Usually, Orbán's speeches at the Tusványos festival are more big-picture, philosophical musings and this year was no different, as the Prime Minister spent quite some time explaining the ideology behind his "illiberal democracy" - a phrase that he introduced in 2014 sitting at the very same table. 
"Nobody says that they won the gold medal, everybody says we won the gold medal. Self-care, work, studying, healthy lives, paying taxes, participating in national self-reflection: this is what we hold morally superior."
"Individual freedoms can never encroach on the interests of the community. There is indeed a majority that must be respected, that is the foundation of democracy."
Liberal democracy was only viable until it has left its Christian roots behind, until it protected individual liberties and private property. But as soon as it started to break down people's ties to reality, questioning sexual identity, devaluing religious identity, and deeming national ties futile, the content of liberal democracy has changed. This had been Europe's zeitgeist in the past 20 or 30 years."
"Democracy owes its existence to Christianity. It was born the day that man was called to realise in this temporary life, the dignity of each human person, in his individual liberty in the respect of the rights of each and by the practice of brotherly love to all,"
This was Orbán's question concluding his speech, and he did have his answers. He said that illiberalism stands for everything that liberals neglect and despise and that whenever Hungary is brought up in the international discourse, there are no arguments, only explosions of bile and hatred. 
Orbán attributed this to Hungary turning against the liberal zeitgeist, yet being successful - as he explained, liberals thought that their post-Christian, post-nationalistic model will bring about the universal age of liberal democracy, but that universality is broken by its Hungarian antithesis, illiberalism. This alternative, the illiberal state protects Christian freedoms, which is necessitated by liberals wanting to surrender Europe's Christian identity and migrants wanting to destroy Europe. Orbán's aim for Hungary is to turn against this liberal zeitgeist and internationalism, as Hungary can only be preserved that way:
"This is going to be an unfair fight, but there are many things on our side that are beautiful, free, and just."
The opposition was united in condemning Viktor Orbán's speech, here is a brief summary of what they had to say:

                                                3-5-8 perces mesék utazáshoz és kalandozáshoz                    