It's possible one or two Fed officials, and maybe even three, could disagree with the central bank's decision to cut rates Wednesday.
Energy giant BP reported better-than-expected second-quarter profits on Tuesday, citing a solid upstream and downstream performance.
Capital One says a data breach identified earlier this month exposed personal information of its customers, including social security details and bank account numbers.
The stock closed Monday up 788% since its May initial public offering and has drawn interest from short sellers.
For the first time since the financial crisis, companies have given back more to shareholders than they are making in free cash flow.
Singapore's economy is set to grow between 1.5% and 2% this year, according to Steve Cochrane, chief Asia Pacific economist for Moody's Analytics.
Sen. Elizabeth Warren, seeking to extend her momentum among liberal voters before the second Democratic presidential debate, on Monday proposed sweeping changes in how America...
Hundreds of Hong Kong protesters blocked train services during the early morning rush hour on Tuesday, causing commuter chaos in the latest anti-government campaign to roil...
In just three years, payments platform Airwallex has achieved much-coveted unicorn status, completing the company's transformation from a humble coffee shop.
Amazon-owned PillPack and Surescripts are doing battle over access to data about patients' prescriptions.
The Trump administration is proposing a rule that would require hospitals to publish the prices that are negotiated with insurers or risk being fined.
Stocks in Asia Pacific edged up on Tuesday as investors awaited developments from U.S.-China trade talks this week in Shanghai. The Bank of Japan also opted to keep monetary...
Rising temperatures will put 1 billion more people at risk of infectious disease, Morgan Stanley warns
Morgan Stanley estimates that over the next 50 years, warmer temperatures will put an additional 1 billion people at risk of contracting an infectious disease.
The biopharma sector could be a big beneficiary, with the firm estimating that  "up to $125 billion in incremental vaccinations" will be needed. Sanofi, GlaxoSmithKline, and Merck could be among the biggest winners.
Rising global temperatures could put an additional 1 billion people at risk of contracting an infectious disease by the year 2080, Morgan Stanley analysts warned in a research report released this week.
The firm called the spread of tropical diseases an  "underappreciated consequence of global temperature rise," and anticipates that exposure to diseases including Zika, dengue and yellow fever will rapidly increase over the coming decades.
 "Warmer temperatures are likely to create more hospitable environments for disease transmission to occur," the report warned.
The firm estimates that there will be an additional 385-725 million people at risk of infection by 2050, with that number rising to 1 billion by the year 2080.
Europe is expected to be the hardest-hit region, with 50% to 70% of the additional cases. The report says more temperate climates will  "lengthen the transmission period and geographical range of vector-borne diseases."
The market to treat these tropical diseases is currently valued at about $500 billion, according to estimates from the firm, and Morgan Stanley anticipates that an additional  "$125 billion in incremental vaccinations" will be needed to fight off the additional cases. If more complex vaccines are needed, that number could rise to $200 billion.
The report does note, however, that there are significant hurdles when it comes to vaccine development, such as  "lengthy and costly development time lines" and "government budgets for national vaccination programs."
Morgan Stanley's warning might seem dire, but the impact of warmer temperatures on disease transmission is already being felt.
Today, for instance, dengue fever is present in more than 100 countries, according to estimates from the World Health Organization. In 1970, that number was just 9.  "More accommodative climates, increased rainfall, and urbanization" are among the reasons cited for the resurgence.
But the impacts – and consequences – aren't felt uniformly. Wealthy countries are often able to utilize wide-scale resources to stop the spread of disease. As Morgan Stanley notes, malaria was eradicated more than 60 years ago in the United States, thanks to efforts from the Centers for Disease Control. But nations that lack funding and have  "comparatively poor economic infrastructures" aren't able to take the necessary approach.
Up until now, rich countries have been  "able to mitigate exposure to vector-borne diseases" and therefore "mask climate change effects on health," but as mosquitoes breed faster and travel further distances, the diseases they carry will be that much more challenging to stamp out, the report said.
The report touches on other economic impacts of a warming climate such as an uptick in natural disasters like hurricanes and fires.
Ultimately, the $200 billion spent on vaccinations will be just a drop in the bucket compared to the overall cost of environmental damage. In the next 20 years, if greenhouse emissions continue at the current rate, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change estimates that $54 trillion worth of damage will have been done.
Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis.