
Atheist parents take primary school to court as they say assembly prayers  breach children’s human rights

 Lee Harris and his wife Lizanne have won permission to bring a judicial review against Oxford Diocesan Schools Trust 
Lee Harris and his wife Lizanne have won permission to bring a judicial review against Oxford Diocesan Schools Trust (ODST) after arguing that Burford Primary School is acting “unlawfully”.
They allege that since ODST took over the running of the community school in 2015, they noticed “harmful aspects of evangelism spreading into assembly” and other parts of their pupils' education. 
ODST is a multi-academy trust that runs 33 schools, all of which are Church of England bar four, including  Burford Primary, which are designated as non-religious “community schools”.  
The trust says on its website that it “operates within the family of the Diocese of Oxford” adding: “We are motivated by our Christian values to serve our local communities, but we do not impose those values”.
Humanists UK, which is supporting Mr and Mrs Harris, believe this will be a test case to challenge schools which hold a daily act of Christian worship without providing a suitable alternative for non-Christians.
They add that once a week there is a longer assembly which involves an external Christian group “dressing as biblical characters” and acting out Christian stories including the crucifixion.
Parents are arguing that this interferes with their children's right to receive an education “free from religious interference”
By failing to provide an alternative that is of “equal educational worth”, the school has breached it public sector equality duty to have “due regard” to people’s beliefs and has also breached the children’s human right by denying them education.
The school also holds various functions in a Church, including a harvest event and the Year Six leavers event, where every pupil is given a bible.
Mr and Mrs Harris say that they do not want their children to attend these events, which leaves them “deprived of the benefit of what should be important elements of school and community life”. This amounts to another breach of equalities laws since their children are effectively being discriminated against, they argue.
Andrew Copson, chief executive of Humanists UK, said: "We are the only sovereign state in the world to require schools to hold daily Christian worship, yet 80 per cent of our young people and 75 per cent of people of parental age are not Christians.”
Anne Davey, chief executive of ODST, said it is “not appropriate” to comment on legal proceedings while the case is ongoing.  
“ODST is confident that Burford Primary School has acted entirely appropriately, and has followed statute in ways that are similar to all local or indeed national schools,” she said.  
“It has provided exactly what the law requires, which includes provision for children to be withdrawn if parents so request.”  
Burford Primaryh was judged to be “Good” in its most recent Ofsted report. Inspectors  said that pupils “speak with confidence about different faiths and cultures”, and added that pupils “have a keen sense of equalities and their work demonstrates a deep understanding of British Values”.
Put police in the dock over Nick investigation for 'unlawful' searches of VIP homes, former judge says
We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future.