Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification.
North Korea appears to ramp up efforts to develop its nuclear arsenal, according to recent reports from intelligence analysts
Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification.

                                                    Kevin Lim/THE STRAITS TIMES
                                            
 The revelation comes after North Korea unveiled a new submarine that could launch nuclear weapons and fired two short-range missiles off its coast, flouting a UN ban on such testing.     
 Up to now, Trump has defended his negotiations with the North Korean leader, saying they've been a success because the country has not engaged in serious missile testing.     
 Analysts have pored over satellite imagery of the reclusive state to discover the movement of shipping containers and trucks at crucial weapons facilities in the northern part of the country, according to The Wall Street Journal. These same analysts are estimating Pyongyang now has between 20 and 60 nuclear weapons. 
 The reports come after North Korea recently fired two short-range missiles off its coast, flouting a UN ban on such testing. The hermit kingdom has also unveiled a new submarine with possible nuclear-launch capabilities. 
 Close analysis of Kim Jong Un's new nuclear-missile submarine reveals it's bound for a suicide mission
 North Korea's latest missile test was an attempt to get Trump's attention after failed nuclear talks, experts say
 The discoveries have been publicly met with shrugs by Trump administration officials so far. In an interview with Fox News, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo was asked about North Korea's new submarine and whether its unveiling could set back future negotiations over its nuclear program. 
Correction: The Wall Street Journal corrected its original reporting stating analysts at the US Defense Intelligence Agency said that North Korea could have expanded its nuclear weapons arsenal by 12 bombs since the June 2018 Trump-Kim summit meeting in Singapore. This post has been updated to reflect that.

                    The SEC is stepping up scrutiny of mutual funds that have poured money into unicorns like WeWork and Airbnb
                

                    Billionaire 'Bond King' Jeffrey Gundlach unpacks a market phenomenon that takes place just before a recession hits — and warns it's happening right now
                

                    CVS wants to change where millions of Americans go when they get sick. Here’s how it plans to get them in the door in the first place.
                

                    AI is already in your home. Soon it could tell you how much sleep to get or help you communicate better with the world.
                

                    25 rising stars in venture capital who control millions of dollars in Silicon Valley and decide which startups will blow up
                
Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification.