Krasnoyarsk and Novosibirsk suffering smoke pollution and infernos rage in forests after hot, dry weather.
Pictures show the scale of the smoke in major population centres from the raging wildfires with the cause seen mainly as out-of-control forest fires in Krasnoyarsk region, the second largest in Russia.
In Krasnoyarsk city, residents have been told by health officials to go outside only if really necessary. 
Here watchdog Rospotrebnadzor confirmed the hygienic standard  in the air of the PM 2.5 particles is exceeded by between 1.2  and 2.3 times.
Locals in Krasnoyarsk came up with the idea to draw the desirable landscape on the smoky pics. Pictures: @anytka_and_sem, @primierro
Sensors installed by activists on Saturday showed a ‘dangerous excess of the maximum permissible concentrations’.
Sensors installed by activists on Saturday showed a ‘dangerous excess of the maximum permissible concentrations’.
The limited visibility and smell of burning is observed in all districts of Krasnoyarsk, and in villages and towns in the vast region, for example, Lesosibirsk and Achinsk.
They reported: ‘An emergency regime is introduced in the region, (and) people have limited access to forests.’
Some 492,750 hectares of forests are ablaze in Krasnoyarsk region and some 217,418 hectares are burning in Irkutsk region.
The pollution from wildfires in Krasnoyarsk has spread with air flows over a huge geographical area to other regions.
Experts explain this was caused by high humidity in the city plus air masses blowing from regions where the wildfires are raging.
A representative of the Russian Ministry of Emergencies in the Tomsk region explained: 'Forest fires in Krasnoyarsk region caused the smell of burning and haze over Tomsk. 
‘According to the observations of the Tomsk Centre for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring, the excess of maximum permissible concentrations of pollutants has not been observed in the atmospheric air.' 
Residents in Kemerovo complained in social networks about the smell of burning and the smoke that stands over the city.
‘Tomorrow the north wind is also expected… but rains may clear the area, which will purify the atmosphere.’
Residents in Kemerovo complained in social networks about the smell of burning and the smoke that stands over the city.
The CityAir service estimates air pollution at 8 points out of 10, the situation began to deteriorate at about 2 am.
This was despite the Ministry of Emergency Situations in Novosibirsk region stating their were no fires on its territory
According to the Federal Service Avialesokhrana on 21 July, some 492,750 hectares of forests are ablaze in Krasnoyarsk region and only 28,366 are being extinguished.
The views expressed in the comments above are those of our readers. 'Siberian Times' reserves the right to pre-moderate some comments.
Almost 3 million hectares on fire, including Arctic, with fumes having hit area larger than European Union.
Krasnoyarsk and Novosibirsk suffering smoke pollution and infernos rage in forests after hot, dry weather.
Mammals were being readied for sale to aquariums in China, but now are to return to wild after public campaign.
Big cat Tikhon refused to be scared away by warning shots as veteran alpha male makes clear he wants to come in from the wild.
Gelandewagen parade videos leads to 'career change' as Russia demands highest standards from secret servicemen.