The militant group has been waging an insurgency in Nigeria and surrounding countries for a decade, killing tens of thousands of people and displacing about 2.4 million others. 

                    
                    Audu Marte /AFP/Getty Images
                    
                
Ashes smolder on the ground in the northeast Nigerian village of Budu on Sunday, after an attack this weekend by suspected Boko Haram fighters on a funeral procession left 60 people dead.
The chairman of the local government council, Muhammad Bulama, told the state news agency that insurgents had recently attacked this same community, Badu village, but the residents effectively fought back. 
"The villagers resisted the attack, killed 11 insurgents and recovered 10 AK-47 rifles in the encounter," Bulama said. 
"On Saturday at about 11:40 a.m., the insurgents came on a reprisal mission, attacked mourners at a graveyard, killed over 60 persons and injuring 11 others," Bulama told the state news agency.
"I ran into the fight between our people and the Boko Harams who shot at everything they came across," Abdullahi told the newspaper. "I was shot at the left side of my shoulder but I continued to crawl until I found help."
Photos from the scene captured by an AFP journalist show burned-out structures and men carrying the corpse of a person killed in the attack, wrapped in white cloth, to a funeral.
Boko Haram has not formally claimed responsibility, though the attack in Badu village fits the pattern of their actions in the area. As NPR's Ofeibea Quist-Arcton reports, it is "the latest in a series of intensifying assaults in northeast Nigeria," and appears to be "the deadliest such attack against civilians in the region this year."
Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari said through a spokesperson that the military has launched an operation to pursue the attackers with air patrols and ground troops.
"The Federal Government is firmly and resolutely committed to taking necessary measures to safeguard the nation's security," spokesperson Malam Garba Shehu told the state news agency. "This administration is determined to end the menace of terrorism."
Shehu said the military would also offer additional protection against attacks to people living in camps for internally displaced persons in the area, which is near Maiduguri, the capital of Borno state. 