Hong Kong's top Government office in Beijing hits out at protesters, calling them 'evil' and 'criminal'
The embattled Chinese Government department that oversees Hong Kong has lashed out at protesters who have rocked the country in recent months, calling their actions "evil" and "criminal" while throwing its support behind leader Carrie Lam.
Protests started in March over concerns about what activists say is Beijing's increasing influence on Hong Kong
The statement called on protesters to focus on the economy and increasing citizen's livelihoods instead
"We call on people from all walks of life in Hong Kong to unequivocally oppose and resist violence," a statement read.
The Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office of the State Council had planned a live press conference to respond to the months of protests — which reportedly would have been the first time the Beijing-based section addressed such a matter since Hong Kong's handover in 1997 — but changed plans at the last minute. 
China's top office for Hong Kong interests however praised Ms Lam, saying it "firmly supports" her administration in its handling of the crisis that the top office said has "caused serious damage to the rule of law, public order, economy and the people's lives in Hong Kong and its international image".
"We call on the general public of Hong Kong to be aware of the grave nature of the current situation and to jointly condemn the evil and criminal acts committed by the radical elements and prevent them from causing trouble in Hong Kong," the statement added.
"We hope that Hong Kong will get over the political contentions as soon as possible and instead concentrate on developing its economy and improving people's livelihood."
A spokesperson for the Government's Hong Kong office, Yang Guang, blamed "some individuals and media organisations" on stoking public panic over amendments to the extradition bill, whom he said had "ulterior motives" and had been "scaremongering".
"As quite a few Hong Kong residents know little about the situation on the mainland and its legal and judicial systems, they may have doubts about the proposed amendments," he said. 
"Some individuals and media organisations with ulterior motives have been scaremongering based on these doubts to stoke public panic and obstruct the adoption of the bill."
Hong Kong is torn between a British past and a Chinese future as it fights for democracy, write Tasha Wibawa and Sean Mantesso.
Police sought to defend China's main representative office in Hong Kong from protesters on Sunday for the second consecutive weekend, with the building near the heart of the city fortified with barricades.
Police said they had arrested at least 49 people over Sunday's protests for offences including unauthorised assembly and possession of offensive weapons.
As the officials left the stage, journalists in the crowd asked why Beijing had not condemned the police's attacking of protesters, which reportedly went unanswered, prompting scenes of chaos.
Hong Kong authorities have raised the prospect of a state of emergency being declared and the Chinese military getting involved if the high-profile protests continue.
The People's Liberation Army has had a presence in Hong Kong since the city's return to Chinese sovereignty.
Asked under what conditions the People's Liberation Army could intervene, Mr Yang referred to Hong Kong's mini constitution, known as the Basic Law, which states that the Hong Kong government can ask the PLA garrison in the city to help maintain order.
Underlying the movement is a broader push for full democracy in the territory. The city's leader is chosen by a committee dominated by a pro-Beijing establishment, rather than by direct elections.
"While police must be able to defend themselves, there were repeated instances today where police officers were the aggressors," Man-kei Tam, the director of Amnesty International Hong Kong, said in a statement.
ABC teams share the story behind the story and insights into the making of digital, TV and radio content.
The latest Household, Income and Labour Dynamics Survey explains why people feel they are going backwards despite official statistics.
Shayna Jack is the not the first athlete to point to a secondary source after a positive drug test, but experts say the warnings are very clear when it comes to athletes taking sports supplements.
Most Republicans do not believe Mr Trump is a racist. This is why his recent remarks are so troubling to me, to people of colour and to many Trump supporters throughout the country.
The WikiLeaks founder's detractors say that despite their dislike for the man, we need to separate him from the charges against him as his prosecution could have grave implications for us all.
The race is on to lure Tim Kelly back to WA, but have West Coast priced themselves out of the contest?
This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.