Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification.
Chernobyl children are taking vacation breaks to escape radiation, but there aren't enough families to host them
Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification.
An 11-year-old Ukrainian girl living near the Chernobyl power plant says goodbye to her host family in Lisbon, Portugal.

                                                    Patricia De Melo Moreira/AFP/Getty Images
                                            
  Each summer, charity organizations offer these kids a chance to vacation in a "clean" city or town, which has both psychological and health benefits.     
  But host families are limited, meaning the charities can't accommodate every child living in a contaminated zone.     
Children from Gomel, Belarus (a city about 60 miles outside Chernobyl), wave after arriving in Hanover, Germany, on June 1, 2016.
                                                    Holger Hollemann/Getty Images                                            
 In the years since, more organizations have pitched in to offer similar vacations.                                                                                                                     
 In the UK, multiple organizations — including the Chernobyl Children's Project, Friends of Chernobyl's Children, and Chernobyl Children's Lifeline — welcome kids for "recuperative" holidays. Some of these children are sick with cancer, while others haven't shown any signs of adverse health effects. 
                                                    Mstyslav Chernov/AP                                            
 Chernobyl's power plant managers 'hid' their radiation levels so they could protect cleanup workers, according to former deputy director
 The former deputy director of the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant says the HBO series got its villain right, but its hero wrong

                    The SEC is stepping up scrutiny of mutual funds that have poured money into unicorns like WeWork and Airbnb
                

                    25 rising stars in venture capital who control millions of dollars in Silicon Valley and decide which startups will blow up
                

                    AI has the potential to radically transform financial services. But first banks need to get their data in order.
                

                    Consumers are tuning out ads more than ever. Big brands are betting AI can help them break through with better targeting and personalization.
                

                    AI is going to change your career. IBM is showing how that can be a good thing.
                
Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification.