These scene is from Vanavara village in the Evenki district of Krasnoyarsk region. Picture: Black Kolibri
The worst-hit regions are Krasnoyarsk, Yakutia and Irkutsk in a summer fire season seen as worse than recent years in the spread and intensity of the infernos. 
Some 784,931 hectares of wildfires are raging on permafrost zones including the Arctic in Yakutia - officially Sakha Republic - and the Khanty-Mansi autonomous region, causing possibly irreparable damage to the tundra.
Other infernos are sweeping through boreal forests which are known as the lungs of the Northern Hemisphere.
In many - indeed most - areas the authorities acknowledge they will not be able to extinguish the fires because the areas are too remote or do not threaten people or strategic facilities. 
The scientists of the Center for Remote Sensing of the Earth of the Krasnoyarsk Scientific Center have shown how fires developed and smoke plumes spread over the territory of Siberia over the past two weeks. Pictures: @krasnoyarsk.science
Eventually rain and snow will do the job, yet there is concern at the pollution pumped into the atmosphere and the loss of vast forest tracts. 
The area on fire - according to official statistics - is 2.24 million hectares, larger than the country of Wales. 
Smoke is reaching both Novosibirsk and Ekaterinburg, Russian’s third and fourth cities by population. 
Novosibirsk along with Tomsk and Kemerovo are covered with the smoke for the fifth day in succession. In the later part of this week, the situation worsened. 
Cardiologist at Novosibirsk City Hospital No. 1, Irina Pankova, said the number of people complaining of headaches, high blood pressure and problems with breathing, has significantly risen.
But here local meteorologists refused to introduce what is known as the mode of unfavourable nature conditions. 
They say that the pollution are not high enough to exceed the norm and complain that the meteorologists from the other cities covered with the smoke, who decided to introduce the mode, acted illegally. 
Regional governor Alexander Uss demanded a voluntarily reduction by factories since ‘we all live in the same city and breathe with the same smoke'. 
Locals staged a protest action where they were walking in respirators, calling for the mode to be introduced.
A petition was charted on change.org demanding the introduction off an emergency mode across all Siberia. 
A resident of Tura, a settlement in the Evenkiysky district, in the north of Krasnoyarsk region, told how in neighbouring Baikit village a bear suddenly ran out of the burning folliage. 
Locals staged a protest action in Krasnoyarsk where they were walking in respirators, calling for the mode to be introduced. Pictures: copter24, Nebo.Live
An emotive post from a Krasnoyarsk resident nicknamed Black Kolibri shows a photo of a seven year old girl in thick smog wearing a face mask.
‘The same number of old men…. People, children, old people have been breathing this for several weeks already. 
‘I ask, all who reads this, distribute it, let everyone know how they poison people, while fat men stuff their pockets. 
'Fires are not extinguished. The taiga burns around the village, the nearest fire is 15km from Vanavara. 
‘If the fire gets to Sobinsky pier, which is one kilometre away, the village will simply be demolished.'
Satellite images show how the smoke from the wildfires spreads in Irkutsk (top) and Krasnoyarsk (bottom) region. Pictures: Krasnoyarsk Scientific Centre 'Planeta'. 
Wildfires in Russia’s Irkutsk region swelled by 66,700 hectares in the past 24 hours, reaching 558,300 hectares, the regional government said in a statement on Friday.
'As of July 26, four wildfires engulfing 1,445 hectares have been contained," the statement reads. According to the regional government, 68 wildfires are still active, scorching 23,225 hectares, 54 wildfires scorching 102,314 hectares are burning in controlled areas.
Another 46 wildfires engulfing 431,300 hectares have been recorded in hard-to-reach area, where firefighting activities are pointless. Three blazes affecting 1,810 hectares were extinguished in the region in the past 24 hours.
According to the regional department of meteorology and environmental monitoring, on July 26-27, fire risks will remain high in the areas engulfed by wildfires.
Worst-hit from from smog in Irkutsk region are Bratsk, Ust-Kut, Ust-Ilimsk, Zheleznogorsk-Ilimsky and Tulun. Tulun was devastated by recent flooding. 
Ekaterina Rodionova, a resident of Ust-Kut, posted: 'While in the south of the region they continue to eliminate the consequences of the flood, in the north people are suffocating from the smoke. 
‘I have a headache and nausea in the morning, and I am afraid even to imagine what hypertensives and asthmatics feel. 
'Fires are not extinguished. The taiga burns around the village, the nearest fire is 15km from Vanavara.' Black Kolibri, The Siberian Times
The date of the resumption of flights is still unknown. Shipping on Lena River in Irkutsk region has been stopped. 
'In the maternity hospital, the little ones are in oxygen masks, there is nothing to breathe, this is the forgotten area, no one cares.’
Pavel Garin, head of the main directorate of the Emergencies Ministry in Yakutia reported: 'The wildfire situation in the Aldan, Verkhoyansk, Zhigansk, Lensky, Nyurbinsky and Suntarsky districts remains very difficult. 
'The situation is aggravated by the lack of precipitation, dry and windy weather. There are no threats to settlements from natural fires. We keep the situation under constant control.' 
In Verkhoyansk, a specially adapted Mi-8 helicopter has made 132 flights dropping 456 tons of water on fires. 
In Krasnoyarsk region the Forestry Ministry made clear that fires in remote districts would not be extinguished. 
A spokesman said: ‘For the most part, we take the decision on non-extinguishing, since there are no threats to human settlements, nor objects of the economy’. 
Alexander Agafonov, an advisor to Rosleskhoz, said: ‘Look, the nearest base is 500 km from the fire in the taiga.’
A plane ’back and forth, drops a small amount of water. We will be ruined if we use aviation for such purposes.’
Such a policy has been permitted for four years but remains controversial because it allows the burning of forests for weeks at a time with no intervention, and the loss of swathes of timber resources. 
The head of the Situation Centre of Federal Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring (Rosgidromet), Anatoly Tsygankov, said the fire danger remains acute in the north of Irkutsk region and south of Yakutia up to 28 July.
Meanwhile, Russia’s federal Natural Resources Ministry wrote that the wildfires in the Krasnoyarsk region were caused by a combination of human actions (35.8% of all cases), flames spreading from other regions (34.4%), and lightning (25.4%).
It would be of great benefit to local residents and to the Arctic for communities in Siberia to begin using these new air monitors. We are installing them in the regional hospitals around Alaska and as seen in this article, there is a project to also install these in villages in Interior Alaska where the wildfires and smoke have been the worst. Here is the recent article in Alaska Public Media. https://www.alaskapublic.org/2019/07/25/uaf-project-seeks-to-provide-air-quality-data-for-rural-remote-alaska-areas/ The instruments are available on-line at this website: www.purpleair.com
much love send to the desperate people. We are one people please take care. Let us heal mother eath now.
May God spare the good people of Siberia the continued onslaught of these devastating fires. May he protect and safeguard the lives, health and well being of all residents, as well as the poor animals overtaken by the fires. And lastly, may his hand soon bring an end to this terrible tragedy.
The views expressed in the comments above are those of our readers. 'Siberian Times' reserves the right to pre-moderate some comments.
Almost 3 million hectares on fire, including Arctic, with fumes having hit area larger than European Union.
Krasnoyarsk and Novosibirsk suffering smoke pollution and infernos rage in forests after hot, dry weather.
Mammals were being readied for sale to aquariums in China, but now are to return to wild after public campaign.
Big cat Tikhon refused to be scared away by warning shots as veteran alpha male makes clear he wants to come in from the wild.
Gelandewagen parade videos leads to 'career change' as Russia demands highest standards from secret servicemen.