Jack, who mysteriously departed the FINA World Championships in South Korea just days before they began citing ''personal reasons," has failed a doping test but said she would never take a prohibited substance "knowingly".
On her official Facebook page, the swimmer said she cannot describe the amount of "pain" and "vulnerability" she was feeling but said she would never take a banned substance on purpose.
"I did not take this substance knowingly. Swimming has been my passion since I was 10-years-old and I would never intentionally take a banned substance that would disrespect my sport or jeopardise my career," the post said.
Now that there is an ongoing investigation and my team and I are doing everything we can to find out when and how this substance came into contact with my body."
Swimming Australia had refused to elaborate on the reasons behind her withdrawal but issued a statement on Saturday night, confirming the adverse finding came from a test in late June.
A spokesperson also confirmed that none of the swimmers were aware of Jack's positive test and only found out when the story broke on Saturday night, three hours before the start of the evening of finals.
SA said the ASADA code prevented them from telling swimmers or announcing the provisional ban but there is precedent among other sports in announcing provisional bans. The ASADA code says it is a 'general rule' that they do not announce provisional suspensions but it is not a hard and fast rule.
"Swimming Australia tonight confirmed that swimmer Shayna Jack has been notified by ASADA of an adverse test result following a routine out-of-competition drug test conducted by ASADA testers on June 26, 2019," the statment said.
"Once Swimming Australia was made aware of the adverse test result it immediately took action - in accordance with the national policy - to provisionally suspend Shayna from the Australian Swim Team while a process was underway and accompanied her back to Australia from a training camp being held in Japan.
"The Swimming Australia policy also means that any Australian athlete under provisional suspension while ASADA investigations are underway cannot take part in any competition, meaning Shayna was unable to travel to Gwangju to compete at the 2019 World Championships.
"Under the specific legislation governing Australia's drug testing regime, Swimming Australia is notified of any adverse test result as is WADA and FINA. Under the process, all details are required to remain confidential until ASADA has completed its investigations, the athlete is afforded due process and an outcome determined."
Swimming Australia chief executive Leigh Russell said the organisation would continue to provide appropriate support for Jack and maintained a zero tolerance approach to doping.
"Swimming Australia is and always has been committed to a clean sport. We have consistently supported a zero tolerance approach to doping and have been strong supporters of a rigorous and consistent approach to drug testing both here and overseas," Russell said.
"Under our system, if a swimmer returns an adverse test, they are automatically given a provisional suspension and stopped from competing until such time as the ASADA process is complete and an outcome determined.
"As you would expect we are bitterly disappointed with allegations a swimmer has a prohibited substance in her system although it is important to point out that the matter is yet to be determined. We will continue to provide appropriate support for Shayna. We will also provide support for our team members who are still in Korea and our team and our organisation will continue to reaffirm our zero tolerance approach."
The positive test could not have come at a worse time for the Dolphins, members of whom had spent the week in Korea campaigning for clean sport and protesting the presence of Chinese superstar Sun Yang, who served a three-month doping ban in 2014.
Australian Mack Horton began the doping protests with his refusal to take the podium after finishing second to Sun in the men's 400m freestyle final. Britan's Duncan Scott did a similar thing a few nights later but Sun will now have ample ammunition to return fire should he choose.
Sun's coach had branded the Australians as 'hypocrites' and a positive test for Jack will put the entire squad in a deeply awkward position.
Eyebrows had been raised when Jack, 20, announced on social media she would not contest the titles. "It is with great sadness that I have to withdraw from world championships due to personal reasons," Jack wrote on Instagram. "I appreciate everyone’s support and patience. Thank you all."
Brisbane-based Jack would have swum on the 4x100m relay team, which won gold in Gwangju, and the 4x200m freestyle relay. News of the test will rock members of the squad to the core.
The championships conclude on Sunday night in Gwangju and the news will put the Australians under an intense spotlight given they have been such vocal leaders of the movement against FINA and its handling of doping matters.
Jack is trained by Dean Boxall at the St Peters Western Swim Club in Brisbane. Boxall is one of the Australian coaches that is in Gwangju with the Dolphins squad.
The Australian Swimming Coaches and Teachers Association had earlier in the week called for a life ban for anyone that had tested positive. That stance will now be tested to its limits now it involves one of their own.