Italy’s populist government to continue turning refugee rescue boats away as they boycott European crisis meeting
Humanitarian groups announce they are sending search and rescue boats back to Mediterranean as Italy warns they are not welcome

      Italy's far-right government has left European leaders searching for a solution to the crisis
      
    
A crew from MSF's Bourbon Argos ship rescuing a boat carrying 130 migrants and refugees off the coast of Libya, at sunrise
A woman in a stretcher being lifted onto MSF's Bourbon Argos ship from a boat carrying 130 migrants and refugees off the coast of Libya
A crew from MSF's Bourbon Argos ship rescuing a boat carrying 130 migrants and refugees off the coast of Libya, at sunrise
A woman in a stretcher being lifted onto MSF's Bourbon Argos ship from a boat carrying 130 migrants and refugees off the coast of Libya
"We intend to make ourselves respected," the far-right Northern League party leader declared in a tweet.
The number was eclipsed when the crisis was at its height in 2015, but this decline is largely the product of Italy blocking people from entering ports and dragging them back unwillingly to North Africa.
Italy's far-right leaders have also encouraged Libya to stop sending boats, a policy condemned by human rights groups.

        Hundreds have died attempting to make the hazardous crossing from Libya to European shores
      
"The haggling about emergency rescue in the Mediterranean must finally end," he told reporters after the story. "It is really necessary that we manage to put together a coalition of those who are prepared to help, and I think we came a step closer to that today." 
He said talks would continue among interior ministers about how an ad hoc mechanism might look that would make it possible for Italy and Malta to open their harbours. 
"if someone is thinking about helping smugglers or breaking laws, be careful because we won't be standing still," he tweeted. 
Swearing, personal abuse, racism, sexism, homophobia and other discriminatory or inciteful
                      language is not acceptable
Swearing, personal abuse, racism, sexism, homophobia and other discriminatory or inciteful
                      language is not acceptable
Want to discuss real-world problems, be involved in the most engaging discussions and hear from the
        journalists? Try Independent Minds free for 1 month. 
Independent Minds Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Minds.
      It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss
      real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when
      they can to create a true meeting of independent minds. The most insightful comments on all subjects
      will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies
      to your comment.
    

      The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to
      Independent Minds. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post
      the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please
      continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
    