Some parts of this page is not supported on your current browser version. Please upgrade the browser to the latest.
Moscow (AFP) - Russia's jailed opposition leader Alexei Navalny said Monday he might have been "poisoned" in his prison cell amid a crackdown on anti-Kremlin protesters.
Navalny, who has been in jail since last week for calling an unauthorised rally, released a picture of himself in hospital with his face puffy, especially around the eyes.
His lawyer and personal physician earlier said that Navalny, President Vladimir Putin's top opponent, was exposed to an unidentified toxic substance and that doctors had sent him back to jail despite his condition.
The 43-year-old lawyer was rushed to hospital from jail on Sunday, a day after nearly 1,400 people were arrested at an unauthorised protest -- the largest police crackdown on dissent in recent years.
Writing on his blog, Navalny, who has never suffered from allergies, said he woke up at night because his face, ears and neck burnt.
When he woke up Sunday morning his face was swollen and his eyelids "the size of ping pong balls", he said.
The swelling subsided after he was treated with steroids in hospital and he now looks like someone "who has been drinking for a week," he said.
He ruled out any foul play by local police, saying they themselves have been "shocked" by his appearance, but suggested that someone might have entered his cell when he was not there.
Earlier on Monday his lawyer Olga Mikhailova told reporters: "It is indeed poisoning by some unknown chemical substance."
The opposition politician's physician Anastasia Vasilyeva slammed doctors for sending him back to the jail despite needing to continue treatment.
Vasilyeva, an ophthalmologist, previously treated Navalny after he nearly lost the sight in one eye following an attack in 2017.
The Russian opposition leader is serving a 30-day jail sentence for calling a rally after authorities blocked prominent independent candidates from taking part in upcoming Moscow parliament elections in September.
Ahead of the rally, police detained a number of popular opposition politicians who have fought to get on the ballot.
They included the director of Navalny's Anti-Corruption Fund, Ivan Zhdanov -- who was sentenced to 15 days in jail on Monday -- and prominent opposition politician and another would-be candidate Ilya Yashin who was jailed for 10 days, also Monday.
"I am not afraid of your rotten system, your arrests or your detention centres," Yashin said in court, according to an account that he published on social media.
Despite the crackdown, thousands of protesters -- many in their 20s and early 30s -- turned up on Saturday in central Moscow to demonstrate over the blocking of opposition candidates and to urge the authorities to open up the tightly-controlled system.
Police beat up protesters with batons and indiscriminately arrested people including the elderly and passers-by.
As riot police assaulted the peaceful protesters, Putin dived to the bottom of the Gulf of Finland aboard a submersible.
On social media, Russians seethed with anger over the brutality of police tactics, sharing stories of injuries and detentions.
While the Kremlin scrambled to contain the fallout, Germany slammed "the disproportionately tough police action" and urged the detained protesters' release.
France expressed concern over the recent developments in Russia, noting the "sudden deterioration" of Navalny's health.
The Bell, a respected Russian-language online publication, said the Kremlin had underestimated Muscovites' anger and readiness to protest.
A person familiar with the Kremlin thinking told the Bell that the most prominent activists would be "banged up", while the rest would be intimidated into no longer protesting.
A meeting between President Donald Trump, the CEOs of some of the biggest airlines in the U.S. and Qatar Airways CEO Akbar al Baker devolved into "a lot of yelling," according to a report from NBC News detailing the meeting. The group met in the Oval Office in what NBC News called an "'Apprentice'-worthy showdown." The outlet reported CEOs of American Airlines and United Airways were in attendance to air some grievances regarding what they believe are unfair practices by airlines in Qatar and the United Arab Emirates.
Democratic presidential candidate Julian Castro, a fervent opponent of the Trump administration's immigration agenda, was called out for his past praise of former President Barack Obama's immigration enforcement policies. “I want to ask you about immigration which you have made a part of your campaign focus,” said “Face the Nation” host Margaret Brennan Sunday. Brennan then played a clip of Castro speaking before a congressional hearing in February 2013.
A massive police manhunt has been launched in a remote part of northern Canada for a pair of teenager double murder suspects. The Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) has been chasing Kam McLeod, 19, and Bryer Schmegelsky, 18, for weeks since the pair were connected to two separate killings in British Columbia earlier this month. Police helicopters, a plane, drones, dog units and armed officers have flooded the area around York Landing, a small village in remote northern Manitoba, where a local indigenous neighbourhood watch group had spotted the duo.
Police said twin babies died inside a car in the Bronx after their father told police he forgot they were there, went to work for the day, and found them hours later.
China blamed Western forces and defended police conduct after Hong Kong endured another weekend of violent clashes between protesters and police. Some "irresponsible people" in the West have applied "strange logic" that made them sympathetic and tolerant to "violent crimes" but critical of the police force's "due diligence," a Chinese government spokesman said at a news briefing Monday. "At the end of the day, their intention is to create trouble in Hong Kong, make Hong Kong a problem to China, in order to contain China's development," said Yang Guang, spokesman for the Chinese Cabinet's Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office, without mentioning any specific individuals or countries.
Chinese state media said on Sunday the United States has shipped several million tonnes of soybeans to China since the two countries' leaders met in June, although U.S. government data shows that the volume was much less. The U.S.-China trade war has curbed the export of U.S. crops to China, with soybean sales falling sharply after Beijing slapped tariffs of 25% on American cargoes. U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) data shows that just 1.02 million tonnes of soybeans were shipped to China for the period starting from the G20 meeting June 28 to the week ended July 18, the most recent date for which data is available.
An internal ethics report has alleged mismanagement and abuses of authority at the highest levels of the UN agency for Palestinian refugees even as the organisation faced an unprecedented crisis after US funding cuts. The allegations included in the confidential report by the agency's ethics department are now being scrutinised by UN investigators. The agency -- the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA) -- said it is cooperating fully with the investigation and that it cannot comment in detail because the probe is ongoing.
Armed miners have reportedly invaded a village in a remote part of Brazil and killed a tribal leader. The violence began last week when the indigenous leader was reportedly stabbed to death in an area belonging to the Waiapi tribe in Amapa state, in the north of the country. It came as around 50 miners, known as "garimpeiros," were said to have overrun the Waiapi village of Mariry.
It's not often that military artillery finds its way through airport security, but that was the case for TSA in Baltimore who found something unusual in a passenger's luggage. The item in question was a missile launcher in the traveler's checked bags, which was detected by TSA officers at the Baltimore/Washington International Thurgood Marshall Airport on Monday morning. The passenger, who is a resident of Jacksonville, Texas, told officials that he was an active military member and that he wanted to keep the missile launcher as a souvenir, the TSA said in a statement.
Baltimore Mayor Bernard "Jack" Young lit into President Donald Trump on Monday, describing his tweets against Rep. Elijah Cummings as “racist” and arguing the federal government should do far more to help the city. “We do have our problems, but we are no different than any other American city,” Young, a Democrat, told USA TODAY in an interview. Trump blasted Cummings, a Democrat, and the city he represents in a tweet storm that began Saturday and continued throughout the weekend.
Want a world-class automotive concours at Michigan prices? Skip Pebble Beach for this next time. From Car and Driver
A police officer wrongly accused McDonald's workers of taking a bite out of his sandwich after he forgot he did it himself. The officer, known only as “DJ”, ordered a McChicken before starting work at Marion County Jail in Indianapolis and put it in a fridge for safekeeping during his shift. When he opened it up seven hours later he discovered the missing chunk and became convinced he had been targeted by the restaurant staff because of his job.
US rapper A$AP Rocky faces assault charges in a Stockholm court on Tuesday over a June street brawl, after weeks of detention which has stirred diplomatic tensions and fan outrage. The 30-year-old rapper, whose real name is Rakim Mayers, was arrested on July 3 along with three other people following the fight in Stockholm on June 30. Mayers, who faces maximum jail time of two years if convicted of assault, has claimed he was acting in self-defence, saying he was responding to harassment and provocations by the plaintiff.
The father of two of five people found dead in two houses in northwestern Wisconsin has identified two sons and a grandson as among the dead. Authorities say a man shot and killed four people and wounded two others wounded at a home in Lake Hallie on Sunday night and a home in the town of Lafayette on Monday. Ritchie German Sr. of North Prairie, Wisconsin, tells the Star-Tribune of Minneapolis-St. Paul that adult sons Ritchie German Jr. and Douglas German were among the dead, along with Douglas' 8-year-old son, Calvin German.
Israel's U.S.-backed Arrow-3 ballistic missile shield has passed a series of live interception tests over Alaska, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said on Sunday, casting the achievement as a warning to Iran. Jointly manufactured by U.S. firm Boeing Co, Arrow-3 is billed as capable of shooting down incoming missiles in space, an altitude that would destroy any non-conventional warheads safely. It passed its first full interception test over the Mediterranean Sea in 2015 and was deployed in Israel in 2017.
The executive director of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC) resigned Monday after Democratic lawmakers and DCCC staffers lashed out publicly at the organization's leadership over their failure to prioritize racial diversity. Allison Jaslow announced her resignation during an emergency meeting that was held on Monday morning in response to calls from staffers and lawmakers for an “immediate restructuring” of the group's senior leadership, Politico reported. Democratic representatives Vicente Gonzalez and Filemon Vela of Texas specifically called for Jaslow's resignation in a statement provided to Politico on Sunday.
Fifty-five pieces of rhino horn were found encased inside shipments of plaster at Hanoi international airport, the Vietnamese authorities reported on Sunday, in the latest bust against sophisticated global wildlife traffickers. The Southeast Asian nation is both an end destination and transit point for multibillion-dollar smuggling operations of animal parts, including many endangered species. The 125-kilogram haul was discovered in a suspicious shipment of plaster casts on Thursday but it took half a day to smash the blocks apart, the police told AFP.
A U.S. appeals court ruled on Monday that Crystallex International Corp. may seize U.S.-based stock of Citgo's parent, which is part of Venezuela's state-owned oil company, to cover a $1.4 billion award over the nationalization of gold fields. Unless reversed on appeal or blocked by the Trump administration, the decision would allow Crystallex to auction the shares to satisfy Venezuela's unpaid debt to the Canadian company.
President Trump doubled down on his attacks against House Oversight Committee Chairman Elijah Cummings, whose district he called a “disgusting, rat and rodent infested mess,” by retweeting a comment from a British columnist who referred to Baltimore as a “proper sh*thole. Trump: Baltimore is a violent place. Highest homicide rate in USA / @BaltimorePolice civilian employee assaulted in street/ proper sh*thole),” right-wing commentator Katie Hopkins tweeted Sunday, repeating a phrase Trump used in January 2018 when he referred to Haiti and African nations as “s***hole” countries in an Oval Office meeting about U.S. immigration policy.
It's Shark Week, so know this about shark attacks: There were just 66 confirmed cases of unprovoked shark attacks worldwide with only four fatalities in 2018, according to the Florida Museum of Natural History's International Shark Attack File. That number is a significant decrease from the past five years, which the Shark Attack File reports was an average of 84 incidents annually. Even more rare is a shark attack on a snorkeler, which accounts for 6% of the shark attacks worldwide.
There are no abortion clinics in Waskom, located near the Louisiana border, but last month an all-male city council passed an ordinance largely written by an anti-abortion group declaring it a “sanctuary city for the unborn”. Officials insisted it was a preventive measure, designed to allay the council's fears that the signing of strict abortion bans in the neighbouring state could prompt clinics to move across the border and into their town of about 2,200 residents. Responding to the proclamation, abortion rights activists from Austin, around 300 miles away, erected two billboards on the edge of town that asserted “abortion is freedom” and directed women needing care to a website with information on local services.
India's wild tiger population has increased by more than 30 percent in the last four years, according to a new census released Monday, raising hopes for the survival of the endangered species. The census found 2,967 tigers in the wild across the country, up from 2,226 four years ago in what Prime Minister Narendra Modi hailed as a "historic achievement" "We reaffirm our commitment towards protecting the tiger," Modi said in Delhi as he released the All India Tiger Estimation Report 2018. "Some 15 years ago, there was serious concern about the decline in the population of tigers.
A Pakistani military plane on a training flight crashed into homes near the garrison city of Rawalpindi before dawn on Tuesday, killing at least 18 people, most of them on the ground. Fires, damaged homes and debris were visible in Mora Kalu village on the outskirts of Rawalpindi after daybreak. After rescue efforts ended, troops and police cordoned off the residential area to search for plane debris and investigate the crash site.
Stratfor Worldview Security, Asia Here's what happened. Intrusions into East China Sea airspace claimed by both China and Japan are fairly common — even sometimes involving South Korea. What Happened An odd set of confrontations unfolded July 23 around the Korean Peninsula involving South Korea, Russia, China and Japan.
Drew Grant was 11 when he and a friend, Mitchell Johnson, fatally shot four students and a teacher at an Arkansas middle school in 1998. Last weekend, Grant, now 33, died in a car crash. In recent years, Grant had legally changed his name from Andrew Golden according to KAIT, a television station for North Arkansas and Southeast Missouri.