The admission follows reports officials have warned ministers that the region would struggle to cope without a functioning government if the UK leaves the EU without a deal.
The executive at the Northern Ireland assembly collapsed in January 2017, and while talks to restore power-sharing are ongoing, it is far from clear that a resolution will be found by 31 October, the current Brexit deadline.
Mr Raab said the government would ensure there was “no vacuum” in the region in the event of no deal.
“We’ll make sure – and there will of course need to be legislation considered across the no-deal scenario – that all the arrangements, whether they’re regulatory or administrative, are in place so that we don’t have a vacuum.”
Asked if legislation would be needed to enforce direct rule, he said: “The question will be the extent to which it can be done, and that’s something I know Julian Smith [the Northern Ireland secretary] will be looking at very carefully, along with Michael Gove [the Cabinet Office minister].“
Imposing direct rule would effectively suspend the Good Friday Agreement, which is based heavily on the idea of devolved government, and would infuriate the nationalist parties in Northern Ireland. 
Mr Raab’s comments come as a new report by a respected think tank said direct rule should be introduced ”with immediate effect” from 31 October if there is a no-deal Brexit.
The Institute for Government said: “This will be extremely contentious, but without it Northern Ireland will be left even more exposed to the economic shocks of a no-deal Brexit than it is currently. That would itself raise the risk of political backlash.”
The report added: “Introducing direct rule could have immediate and long-lasting political repercussions. It would see the UK government rolling back devolution – and a key part of the Good Friday Agreement – as part of its decision to leave the EU without a deal. Nonetheless, a responsible government would have a bill providing for direct rule in the event of a no-deal exit on the statute book before 31 October.”
The think tank said a no-deal Brexit would see the union “come under unprecedented pressure”, with Northern Ireland facing “significant and lasting disruption to its economy” and the “potential for that to translate into increased political tension”. No deal would increase pressure for a second referendum on Scottish independence, and have a damaging impact on farming and manufacturing industries in Wales, the report added. 
Last week, Mr Varadkar questioned whether the UK government was “impartial” in Northern Irish politics, as it is supposed to be, because of the Conservatives’ electoral pact with the DUP.
He said: “I will allow others to judge whether a confidence and supply agreement with the DUP is impartial.”
Swearing, personal abuse, racism, sexism, homophobia and other discriminatory or inciteful
                      language is not acceptable
Swearing, personal abuse, racism, sexism, homophobia and other discriminatory or inciteful
                      language is not acceptable
Want to discuss real-world problems, be involved in the most engaging discussions and hear from the
        journalists? Try Independent Minds free for 1 month. 
Independent Minds Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Minds.
      It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss
      real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when
      they can to create a true meeting of independent minds. The most insightful comments on all subjects
      will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies
      to your comment.
    

      The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to
      Independent Minds. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post
      the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please
      continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
    