The fatal stabbing of Russian LGBT activist Yelena Grigoriyeva in St. Petersburg has drawn strong reactions worldwide, with fellow activists lamenting a system that failed to protect her and anti-LGBT figures saying her killing was justified.
Grigoriyeva to a hit list in the weeks before her killing. The website, which took inspiration from the “Saw” horror film franchise, was 
Grigoriyeva, 41, was found with eight stab wounds and signs of strangulation near her home in central St. Petersburg over the weekend.
 Grigoriyeva’s slaying to be an act of “moral jihad.” Bulatov told the Znak.com news website that “this creature has been punished by the almighty” and said he “would have handled her on [his] own if the police were unable to.” 
 Russia’s Investigative Committee to examine whether the website played a role in Grigoriyeva’s killing. 
Fellow activists claim Grigoriyeva had regularly received death threats and reported them to the police, who did nothing to protect her before she was murdered.
“This could be hatred on grounds of political convictions, homophobia or a domestic dispute. Every lead needs to be considered, and those guilty found and punished,” said Maxim Olenichev, a lawyer for the Vykhod LGBT rights group.
“Yelena was killed because she was not afraid to tell the truth about the subjects that are traditionally silent in Russia and on the country’s state television channels,” demonstrator Marina Ken 
Grigoriyeva’s death is being treated as the result of a domestic dispute and not a hate crime, an unnamed source familiar with the investigation 
This story was updated on July 25, 2019, to add details about the detained suspect from the Investigative Committee's statement.

			Siberian Wildfires Swell to Crimea-Sized Area, Authorities Say Extinguishing Them Is ‘Pointless’		

				Siberian Wildfires Swell to Crimea-Sized Area, Authorities Say Extinguishing Them Is ‘Pointless’			

				‘The Political Regime Against the People’: The Reactions to Moscow’s Election Protest and Crackdown			
Russian courts have in the past decade either banned gay pride parades outright or backtracked on earlier promises to allow them.
“Dear citizens, you know yourselves that you are perverts; you need to disperse,” Milonov is heard saying.

								With your help, we can continue with our mission to keep you informed with breaking news, business analysis, thought-provoking opinions, the best of culture and insights into everyday life.
							