EU officials indirectly confirm UK's gross mismanagement detailed in an unconfirmed report last week.
Authorities in the United Kingdom have made unauthorized copies of data stored inside a EU database for tracking undocumented migrants, missing people, stolen cars, or suspected criminals.
Named the Schengen Information System (SIS), this is a EU-run database that stores information such as names, personal details, photographs, fingerprints, and arrest warrants for 500,000 non-EU citizens denied entry into Europe, over 100,000 missing people, and over 36,000 criminal suspects.
The database was created for the sole purpose of helping EU countries manage access to the passport-free Schengen travel zone.
The UK was granted access to this database in 2015, even if it's not an official member of the Schengen zone.
According to the report, UK officials made copies of this database and stored it at airports and ports in unsafe conditions. Furthermore, by making copies, the UK was always working with outdated versions of the database.
This meant UK officials wouldn't know in time if a person was removed from SIS, resulting in unnecessary detainments, or if a person was added to the database, allowing criminals to move through the UK and into the Schengen travel zone.
Furthermore, they also mismanaged and misused this data by providing unsanctioned access to this highly-sensitive and secret information to third-party contractors, including US companies (IBM, ATOS, CGI, and others).
The report expressed concerns that by doing so, the UK indirecly allowed contractors to copy this data as well, or allow US officials to request the database from a contractor under the US Patriot Act.
At the time, EU authorities never confirmed the report's validity. However, in comments made earlier this week, EU officials inadvertantly admitted to the report's existence, and its accuracy.
"It is not just one member state that has some challenges in this area, there are a number of member states that have challenges in this area," he added.

									
																			ECJ: Websites using Facebook 'Like' button responsible for the user data they send to Facebook.
																	

									
																																																														Three
																																																								announces
																																																								that
																																																								5G
																																																								will
																																																								be
																																																								offered
																																																								to
																																																								customers
																																																								at
																																																								the
																																																								same
																																																								cost
																																																								as
																																																								4G,
																																																								while
																																																								Vodafone
																																																								confirms
																																																								roaming
																																																								across
																																																								55
																																																								towns
																																																								and
																																																								cities
																																																								across
																																																								the
																																																								UK,
																																																								Germany,
																																																								Italy,
																																																								and
																																																								Spain.
																																											...
																	

									
																			Hackers as young as 12 might be given a chance to mend their ways.
																	

									
																																																														University
																																																								says
																																																								it
																																																								has
																																																								fallen
																																																								victim
																																																								to
																																																								a
																																																								"a
																																																								sophisticated
																																																								and
																																																								malicious
																																																								phishing
																																																								attack"
																																																								--
																																																								and
																																																								students
																																																								are
																																																								being
																																																								warned
																																																								to
																																																								look
																																																								out
																																																								for
																																																								suspicious
																																																								emails.
																																											...
																	

									
																			London's Tube will get full mobile coverage -- at some point in the coming decade.
																	

									
																			European officials have changed their position on what happens to .eu domains after Brexit.
																	

									
																			Half of the database, to be exact, the half the hacker released to local reporters over the last weekend.
																	

									
																			Galileo Initial Services have now been restored, days after an equipment malfunction caused the outage.
																	

									
																			Source of the data breach appears to be the country's National Revenue Agency.
																	