Some parts of this page is not supported on your current browser version. Please upgrade the browser to the latest.
The mom of a 10-year-old boy received the shock of her life recently: a phone call from her local juvenile court, explaining that her son would be charged with aggravated assault, months after a playground game of dodgeball at his elementary school.
Now, because the boy being punished is black and the boy who was injured is white, some critics are calling the incident racist, while others — including celebrity comedian DL Hughley, who called the charge “ridiculous” — are coming to the boy’s general defense.
“Some 10 year olds were playing dodgeball on the playground at school. A white kid got hit with the ball. Then they charged the 10 year old Black child with assault,” tweeted film producer and self-dubbed “No. 1 race baiter” Tariq Nasheed. “This is why we should not prioritize any of these border issues, while our kids are racially targeted.”
The situation began back on Apr. 29, when Bryce received a one-day suspension from Ruth Eriksson Elementary, in Canton, for allegedly hitting a classmate in the face with a ball during a game of dodgeball. The child reportedly sustained a concussion, but because it was an accident, Lindley didn’t expect punitive measures against her son Bryce to go any further.
But the injured child’s mother — who declined to release her name or her child’s to the public — says her son had a previous medical condition that made him susceptible to head injuries. Further, she alleges to 7 Action News that this particular injury was no accident, adding that he “sustained facial tissue damage to his face. He had a black eye and a bruised nose.” She says that her son had already experienced similar incidents while engaging in physical activities at school, and that she “tried not to let it get to this point.”
The case, Wayne County’s assistant prosecuting attorney Maria Miller tells Yahoo Lifestyle, “was evaluated by our Juvenile Prosecuting Unit, and it was determined that there was enough evidence to for us to charge aggravated assault.”
Some seem to imply that the incident appears to fit into a larger pattern — of what various studies have found to be disproportionate punishments between black and white children in America.
Hughley’s Instagram post in defense of Bryce has attracted more than 21,000 likes since Sunday. “Ridiculous!! These are kids being kids!!” he wrote. “They charged a child?? If the kid has a medical condition… why is he participating in something where he can get hurt?? #ThisIsAmerica.” Other social media users have echoed his sentiments, one noting, “if your child has a medical condition and as the parent you fail to alert the school and teacher about it, then it’s your fault! Not the kid who was just playing a game of dodgeball. Smh.”
Lindley told the local news station: “This is a kid who was playing on a playground with his friends…I’m sorry that her child got hurt. I’d be sorry for any child that got hurt.”
#JusticeForElijah: People outraged after man who allegedly killed teen for playing rap music uses mental illness as defense
Brandon Clark is accused of killing 17-year-old Bianca Devins and sharing photos of her corpse on social media earlier this month.
Stella, a 12-year-old born with the children's version of ALS, recently won her first goat competition. The family received an anonymous letter saying her parents should be "ashamed" for letting her compete.
Damien Gross is a disability lifestyle influencer, who uses his platform to show people what it's like to live with cerebral palsy.
Delta Airlines reportedly refused to allow a trained service dog onboard a flight because it looked like a pit bull. According to the pet rescue agency, the dog is a boxer/bulldog.
An engagement photoshoot was interrupted when a deer wanted to join in — and photobombed the couple’s romantic poses.
Mosquitos carrying a virus that can infect humans, causing brain swelling and death, has been found in Florida. Here’s what you need to know.
Many Omaha, Nebraska, natives were outraged after a cell tower technician flew a version of the Civil War-era banner high above a local public school.
Felicia Layton, a 21-year-old kinesiology student and employee of an on-campus daycare, shared in a Facebook post on Thursday that she was sent home from work for wearing the back of her hair wrapped in a headscarf.
In a new interview with Vox, Megan Rapinoe reveals that Trump's antagonizing jab at the USWNT captain made the women's soccer team determined to win.
A community center is under fire on social media for displaying a sign that some think "perpetuates body-shaming culture."
In Michigan a 10-year-old black child has been charged with aggravated assault over a game of dodgeball.
After four hours, and a brief protest onstage by a losing contestant, a brunette from the western Mexico state of Colima took the crown. Ivanna Cázares flashed a smile as the announcer declared her Miss Trans Beauty Mexico 2019. It was the second edition of the pageant, which was begun as part of an effort to make transgender women more visible and accepted in Mexican society.
It CAN be easy being green! We've rounded up Amazon's 10 best low-maintenance plants, according to reviewers.
Experts in Wisconsin are speaking out after eight high school kids were hospitalized from vaping. “Vaping in teenagers is causing significant damage,” the hospital's chief medical officer said. “We want that message to be loud and clear.”
Fatima Ali's mother travelled to Italy to honor her late daughter, who wanted to visit Chef Massimo Bottura's restaurant.
"Motherhood is a masterclass in letting go," Obama told the duchess in an interview for British Vogue.
College student says she was sent home from on-campus job for wearing headscarf: 'The rule is belittling and racist'
Family receives heartless letter after disabled daughter wins goat competition: 'Stop trying to make your child normal'
Half-American, half-Confederate flag flown near school sparks controversy: ‘Didn’t we fight for the North?’
8 teens hospitalized with 'severe lung damage' from vaping — leading expert says e-cig use is 'not without health effects'