Muslim boy, whose family claimed he was set on fire for not chanting ‘Jai Shri Ram’ dies in Uttar Pradesh
The police have denied the boy’s claims stating that the victim set himself on fire. According to news agency ANI, Chandauli SP Santosh Kumar Singh said that claims made by the boy were false.
The SP was quoted as saying, “He had given different statements to different people, so it seemed suspicious. It seemed he had been tutored. Police monitored CCTV footage of places he had mentioned and found that he had not been at any of those places.”
News agency IANS quoted the boy as saying, “I was walking on Dudhari bridge when four men kidnapped me. Two of them tied my hand and third one started pouring kerosene. After which they set me on fire and ran away.”
पूर्व विदेश मंत्री एसएम कृष्णा के दामाद और CCD के संस्थापक वीजी सिद्धार्थ कर्नाटक से लापता, सर्च ऑपरेशन जारी
उत्तर प्रदेश: कथित तौर पर ‘जय श्री राम’ नहीं बोलने पर मुस्लिम युवक को लोगों ने जिंदा जलाया, खालिद ने अस्पताल में तोड़ा दम
SM Krishna’s son-in-law and founder of Cafe Coffee Day goes missing from Mangaluru bridge after alleging harassment by tax officer in letter
GSEB Supply Results 2019: Gujarat Board declares 10th,12th General Stream Supplementary results today
IAS topper Tina Dabi Khan blows kiss during photoshoot with husband, later shares ‘time-lapse’ video of work
Arnab Goswami’s attempts to defend Harbhajan Singh backfires spectacularly, calls decorated army officer’s daughter ‘army hater’
Javed Akhtar launches brutal attack against ‘refugee’ Shekhar Kapur, asks him to cut ‘melodrama’ and see ‘psychiatrist’
BJP leader invents ‘love-jihad’ theory for cows, says dead cows should be cremated as per Hindu rituals
FSSAI Results 2019: Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) to announce results on @ fssai.gov.in

                IAS topper Tina Dabi Khan has flooded her Instagram page with a series of photos and 'time-lapse' videos of her 'day's work.' Her clicks...            

                Arnab Goswami last week made a desperate attempt to defend Harbhajan Singh for his controversial tweet on the successful launch of India's second moon...            

                Lyricist Javed Akhtar has lashed out at filmmaker Shekhar Kapur for his 'melodrama' after he called himself a refugee in a country ruled by...            

                Actor Sidharth Malhotra and his costar Parineeti Chopra in Jabariya Jodi on Sunday said that they would kidnap Saif Ali Khan, his wife Kareena Kapoor Khan...            

                A video of a pair of stray bulls entering the classroom of prestigious IIT Bombay has gone viral on social media, leaving Twitterati in...            
VIDEO: टीवी डिबेट में बीजेपी प्रवक्ता ने राबड़ी देवी पर की अपमानजनक टिप्पणी, पूर्व मुख्यमंत्री ने किया जोरदार पलटवार
Arnab Goswami launches stinging personal attack against former NDTV colleague Barkha Dutt, calls her ‘currently unemployed, permanently unemployable’
WATCH- Arnab Goswami remotely gatecrashes in Aparna Sen’s press conference with ‘whatabouteries,’ gets snubbed by filmmaker
WATCH- Arnab Goswami remotely gatecrashes in Aparna Sen’s press conference with ‘whatabouteries,’ gets snubbed by filmmaker

                पूर्व महान बल्लेबाज सुनील गावसकर विश्व कप सेमीफाइनल में भारत की हार के बाद भी विराट कोहली को स्वाभाविक तौर पर कप्तान बनाए रखे...            