Hong Kong has seen a second day of violent clashes between police and pro-democracy demonstrators who are also angry at alleged police brutality.
Police fired tear gas and rubber bullets at protesters trying to reach the Chinese government's office.
Tens of thousands of demonstrators have taken over streets near Sai Wan and Causeway Bay on Hong Kong Island.
It is ranked as one of the safest cities in the world - but recent protests have been followed by violent clashes between demonstrators, police and masked men wielding sticks suspected of being criminal gang members.
Sunday's protests saw activists wearing protective helmets and goggles erecting barricades at several different locations and chanting "free Hong Kong".
The protests began as a police-authorised gathering in a park in the central business district before protesters defied the authorities and marched west towards the Chinese liaison office in Sai Wan and east towards the Causeway Bay shopping area.
Hundreds of police blocked the protesters from reaching the Chinese liaison office. The building had been fortified with plastic barricades and a Chinese government emblem above the front door had been covered with a plastic shield, Reuters news agency reported.
Last Sunday the office was targeted by protesters who wrote graffiti and threw paint on its walls. Chinese officials said this was a challenge to Beijing's authority that would not be tolerated.
Some protesters chanted "reclaim Hong Kong" and "revolution of our times", or held up banners that read "end the violence".
Meanwhile in the Causeway Bay shopping area, protesters with helmets and masks waited for police as tourists carrying shopping bags, including many from mainland China, continued to walk the streets.
Demonstrations began when the Hong Kong government introduced a controversial bill that would have enabled extraditions to mainland China.

                    Protesters took over major roads in the financial and shopping districts
                

                    There were clashes near China's liaison office in the territory
                
It sparked huge protests as critics feared the bill would undermine Hong Kong's freedoms, and be used to target political activists.
The row intensified as police were accused of using excessive force on anti-extradition bill protesters. 
Tensions increased further last Sunday, when suspected triad members descended on a subway station in Yuen Long, beating protesters, passersby and journalists with sticks. 
The authorities say they have arrested 12 people over the attack, including nine men with links to triads.
While the government has paused work on the extradition bill, protesters now want it withdrawn completely, as well as an independent inquiry into police violence, and democratic reform.
They want the territory's leader, Carrie Lam, who is not democratically elected, and whose handling of the crisis has been widely criticised, to resign.
Some protesters have also expressed their anger at the mainland Chinese government, which they say has been eroding freedoms in Hong Kong.
As a former British colony, Hong Kong has its own legal and judicial systems, and has been promised "a high degree of autonomy" from the Chinese government, except in foreign and defence affairs.
China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) does have troops stationed in Hong Kong, but they are not expected to interfere in local issues.
However, the law does permit Hong Kong's government to request assistance from the PLA for purposes of maintaining public order, or disaster relief.
Last week China's defence ministry spokesman condemned protesters who had vandalised the government's offices, and said there were "clear stipulations" in the law allowing Hong Kong's leaders to ask the army for help.
Hong Kong's government and police have stated in recent weeks that they have no plans to involve the army - while some commentators argue that China would consider using its troops in Hong Kong to be too politically risky. 