A policeman fires tear gas to disperse protesters during a demonstration in the district of Yuen Long in Hong Kong on July 27, 2019. (Anthony Wallace/AFP/Getty Images)
“The violent scenes in Yuen Long tonight were in part because Hong Kong police chose to inflame a tense situation rather than deescalate it,” Amnesty said. “For police to declare today’s protest unlawful was simply wrong under international law.”
It added: “While police must be able to defend themselves, there were repeated instances today where police officers were the aggressors; beating retreating protesters, attacking civilians in the train station, and targeting journalists. Alarmingly, such a heavy-handed response now appears the modus operandi for Hong Kong police and we urge them to quickly change course.”
On July 21, a group of men in white t-shirts, wielding wooden or metal poles, rushed into the Yuen Long metro station and began beating passengers, according to footage taken by commuters and journalists at the scene. Democratic party lawmaker Lam Cheuk-ting was among the at least 45 injured.
A number of attackers have since been arrested by the police, who noted that some had triad backgrounds.
The march on July 27, named “Reclaiming Yuen Long,” was organized by Hong Kong resident Max Chung to call on the government to meet seven demands, including the withdrawal of the extradition bill and an independent investigation into the violent civilian clashes on July 21.
Despite the police objection, the march still proceeded, with participants marching from Shui Pin Tsuen Playground to Yuen Long’s metro station.
Pro-democracy lawmaker Eddie Chu and Leonard Cheng, President of Lingnan University of Hong Kong, were among the participants.
Hong Kong media reported that several reporters were hit by the police’s rubber bullets. Some protesters eventually retreated into Yuen Long metro station. Then, at around 10 p.m. local time, violence escalated as police moved in on protesters inside the station. According to Hong Kong media HKFP, baton-wielding police cornered protesters and some of them fell to the ground as people tried to flee. Bloodstains could be seen spattered on the floor.
At around 1 a.m. on July 28, the Hong Kong Hospital Authority announced that 24 people had been injured, with 2 in serious condition.
Hong Kong media The Stand News reported that 11 men aged between 18 and 68, had been arrested on charges including unlawful assembly, assaulting police officers, and possession of offensive weapons.
The Hong Kong government has since issued a statement, calling the Yuen Long march “illegal” and condemning “radical protesters” for deliberately breaking the law by charging at police cordon lines and blocking roads. It also stated that police would take serious follow-up actions with arrested protesters.
Focus on the Family’s Jim Daly on the Importance of Family, Marriage, and Having Children [WCS Special]
On the same night as former Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying criticized Hong Kong students for “lacking family discipline,” a mob of individuals with white T-shirts armed with ...
Amid Backlash Over Violent Mob Attack, Hong Kong Public Servants, Trade Professionals Join Chorus of Protest Against Extradition Bill
Following a July 21 violent mob attack that targeted protesters who opposed a local extradition bill, a growing chorus of support for the protesters have emerged from ...
Commentary As gangsters beat up residents in Yuen Long and the protests against the extradition bill escalate, the situation in Hong Kong has entered a new phase. ...
Hongkongers took to the streets on July 28 for the second consecutive day of protests in defiance of police objections. Clashes between protesters and police once again ...
At a rare press conference on July 29, Beijing’s highest-level agency for managing Hong Kong affairs reiterated its support for the city’s top leadership in its handling ...
HONG KONG—Hong Kong authorities stepped up security around the city's main China representative office on July 28 as people began gathering for another protest, with anger simmering ...
Police fired tear gas during clashes in a rural Hong Kong town on Saturday as several thousand activists gathered to protest.
The image has become an emblem of the Hong Kong protests. A young woman wielding a yellow umbrella shields a girl from a torrent of tear gas ...
In mid-June, the commander of China's People’s Liberation Army (PLA) garrison in Hong Kong assured a Pentagon official that Chinese troops will not intervene with Hong Kong’s ...
HONG KONG—Several hundred protesters calling for democracy and some chanting "free Hong Kong" converged on the Chinese-ruled city's airport on July 26 as neighboring Singapore advised its ...
The U.S. State Department has expressed concern about recent statements from the Chinese regime that it could deploy its military to intervene in Hong Kong against protests ...
A major Chinese nationalist internet troll group has disbanded amid backlash over their planned online attacks directed at Hong Kong pro-democracy protesters. Diba Central Army, also known ...
President Donald Trump’s recent vetoes have held up after votes in the U.S. Senate on July 29 showed the Senate majority will now allow the administration to ...
SEATTLE—A hacker gained access to personal information from more than 100 million Capital One credit applications, the bank said on Monday, July 29, as federal authorities arrested ...
A man opened fire on a crowd at a popular food festival in California on July 28, killing three people and injuring about 15 others before law ...
Democratic presidential hopeful Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) proposed a health care plan that would transition to a socialist "Medicare for All" system over the course of 10 ...
President Donald Trump has commuted the sentences of two individuals and granted full pardons to five others who had already served sentences for non-violent crimes, the White ...
White House: All Democratic Members of Congress Invited to Attend Trump’s Signing of 9/11 Bill, None Attend
No Democratic members of Congress attended the event featuring President Donald Trump signing a bill on July 29 to extend the compensation fund for the Sept. 11, ...
WASHINGTON—Rep. Tom McClintock (R-Calif.) criticized the claim by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) that the earth has only 12 years left if nothing is done about the so-called ...
At least 16 prisoners were decapitated and dozens more were killed during a prison riot in Brazil. At least 57 inmates died in the riots that involved ...
Former Trump 2016 presidential campaign associate George Papadopoulos intends to travel to Greece to retrieve $10,000 in cash that he believes consists of marked bills used by ...
WASHINGTON—As Congress heads to a long recess, lobbying efforts for the new U.S.–Mexico–Canada (USMCA) trade agreement are kicking into high gear in Washington. More than 600 national ...
President Donald Trump has received backlash from political opponents who called him "racist" for criticizing Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-Md.) and his district of Baltimore, which he called a ...
Trump on Gilroy Shooting: We Will Work to ‘Stop Evil, Prevent Violence, and Protect the Safety of All Americans’
President Donald Trump sent his condolences to victims of the deadly shooting in Gilroy, California, on Monday, July 29, saying that the communities and citizens will work ...
The roughly 2,000 state and local governments suing the drug industry over the deadly opioid crisis have yet to see any verdicts or reach any big national ...
If you or anybody you know likes to bake cakes, then you'll have heard of baking soda. It's a wonderful ingredient and a kitchen cupboard staple, but ...
NEW YORK—It’s not what you've done in life that matters, but what you haven't done. And thinking about the “if onlys” won't do anything to change them. These ...
In August 1619, a privateer docked at Point Comfort near Jamestown, Virginia. In exchange for food and supplies, the privateer left behind “20 and odd” of the ...
One of the nation's longest-running soap operas lost one of its cast members on July 29. Authorities discovered the body of Stoke-on-Trent Actress Paula Williamson at a house ...
Ariana Grande apologized for a joke she made about former child model JonBenet Ramsey, who was killed in 1996 and became the subject of national headlines for ...
A New York food importer recalled dozens of different kinds of fish because they were not re-inspected before being distributed across the nation on July 27. Premium ...
Whether you realize it or not, you know Ann Turner Cook. Or at least you know her face, albeit from 1927! Cook was the very first, the ...
Together with nearby St. Moritz, the Grand Kronenhof Pontresina is one of Switzerland’s most stylish destinations.
Lesser-known destinations in Europe offer fewer crowds and more authentic, concentrated experiences. 
When this mother learned that the peculiar bubble blowing out of her 17-week-old fetus’s mouth was actually a rare and fatal tumor, she thought “there has to ...
On Aug. 17, 2012, this young baby was almost killed by her father when she was 8 months old. Half of her brain had to be removed. ...
White House: All Democratic Members of Congress Invited to Attend Trump’s Signing of 9/11 Bill, None Attend
We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience. This includes personalizing content and advertising. By continuing to use our site, you accept our use of cookies, revised Privacy Policy and Terms of Use.