We use cookies to improve our service for you. You can find more information in our data protection declaration.
 Israel and the United States say they have successfully tested the Arrow 3 missile defense system. Israel intends to use the jointly developed interceptor system to defend against missiles potentially fired from Iran.
Israel said on Sunday that it had carried out a series of successful live interception tests of its Arrow 3 ballistic missiles over the US state of Alaska.
Israel and the US held up the successful test as evidence of the strength of their alliance in the face of perceived threats from various countries, notably Iran.
"Today, Israel has the capabilities to act against ballistic missiles launched at us from Iran and from anywhere else," said Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
The director of the US Pentagon's Missile Defense Agency, Vice Admiral John Hill, said in a statement that Washington was "committed to assisting the government of Israel in upgrading its national missile defense capability to defend the state of Israel and deployed US forces from emerging threats."
The Arrow 3 system is part of a multicomponent shield that Israel is developing to defend itself not only against long-range missiles from Iran, but also rockets fired from Gaza and Lebanon.
In a statement, the Israeli Defense Ministry said the tests were carried out in Alaska to try out features that were not allowed to be tested in Israel.   
Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.
In the ongoing quest for security from enemy missiles in Israel has seen a new success. Israel's Arrow 3 interceptor shot down an incoming missile in a carefully orchestrated test. (11.12.2015)
  
The US has blamed Iran for attacks on oil tankers in the Persian Gulf — a claim Iran denies. The dispute has raised concerns of a new conflict in the region. DW examines the key actors involved and their interests. (15.06.2019)
  
The UK government has suggested setting up a European naval mission to defend ships in the Persian Gulf amid heightened tensions with Iran. Tehran says the proposal is "hostile" and "provocative." (28.07.2019)
  
Unveiling the new missile appears to be a direct challenge to Western criticism of Iran's ballistic missile program. Iran says its ballistic missiles are a defensive deterrent and not negotiable. 
No reason has been given for replacing the long-standing head of the paramilitary group. The US has controversially labelled the group a terrorist organization. 
Whether it lands or crashes, Israel's Beresheet moon mission can only score big, politically, says DW's Zulfikar Abbany, as space becomes one of the most competitive domains next to land, air and sea. 