It's possible one or two Fed officials, and maybe even three, could disagree with the central bank's decision to cut rates Wednesday.
Energy giant BP reported better-than-expected second-quarter profits on Tuesday, citing a solid upstream and downstream performance.
Capital One says a data breach identified earlier this month exposed personal information of its customers, including social security details and bank account numbers.
The stock closed Monday up 788% since its May initial public offering and has drawn interest from short sellers.
For the first time since the financial crisis, companies have given back more to shareholders than they are making in free cash flow.
Singapore's economy is set to grow between 1.5% and 2% this year, according to Steve Cochrane, chief Asia Pacific economist for Moody's Analytics.
Sen. Elizabeth Warren, seeking to extend her momentum among liberal voters before the second Democratic presidential debate, on Monday proposed sweeping changes in how America...
Hundreds of Hong Kong protesters blocked train services during the early morning rush hour on Tuesday, causing commuter chaos in the latest anti-government campaign to roil...
In just three years, payments platform Airwallex has achieved much-coveted unicorn status, completing the company's transformation from a humble coffee shop.
Amazon-owned PillPack and Surescripts are doing battle over access to data about patients' prescriptions.
The Trump administration is proposing a rule that would require hospitals to publish the prices that are negotiated with insurers or risk being fined.
Stocks in Asia Pacific edged up on Tuesday as investors awaited developments from U.S.-China trade talks this week in Shanghai. The Bank of Japan also opted to keep monetary...
Capital One says a data breach identified earlier this month exposed personal information of its customers, including social security details and bank account numbers.
The bank says about 140,000 Social Security numbers of its credit card customers and around 80,000 linked bank account numbers were compromised.
The FBI arrested a suspect, Paige A. Thompson, 33, who was charged with computer fraud and abuse, according to court records.
Still, no credit card account numbers or log-in credentials were exposed and over 99% of Social Security numbers were not affected, according to the bank, which said the unauthorized access occurred on March 22 and 23 of this year.
The FBI arrested a suspect, Paige A. Thompson, who was charged with computer fraud and abuse, according to court records. Authorities said Thompson used the alias  "erratic" in online communications and was investigated for "exfiltrating and stealing information, including credit card applications and other documents, from Capital One."
The criminal complaint alleged that Thompson posted the stolen data online on information sharing site GitHub and made statements on social media  "evidencing the fact that she has information on Capital One, and that she recognizes that she has acted illegally."
 "While I am grateful that the perpetrator has been caught, I am deeply sorry for what has happened," Richard D. Fairbank, chairman and CEO of Capital One, said in the release. "I sincerely apologize for the understandable worry this incident must be causing those affected and I am committed to making it right."
The bank estimates the hack will cost the company approximately $100 million to $150 million in 2019.
Correction: This article has been updated to reflect that Capital One said it identified the data breach earlier this month.
Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis.