
        Mahmoud Abbas said he is setting up a committee to implement the cessation of all agreements with Israel
    

                                                                                                        'There is no purely economic solution to the Palestinian economy’s problems'
                                                            

                                                                                                        Palestinian Authority to 'take practical steps' to reduce dependency on Israeli economy, minister says
                                                            

                                                                                                        Israel demolishes 70 homes in Palestinian-controlled East Jerusalem neighborhood
                                                            
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas declared on Thursday a cessation to all agreements with Israel, including the security coordination between Israel and the Palestinian Authority in the West Bank. 
                                                    
The official Palestinian news agency WAFA confirmed the statement.
                                                    
Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad both released statements in the Palestinian press and on social media on Friday, in a rare praise of Fatah policymaking.
                                                    
"The announcement of the President of the Authority Mahmoud Abbas to stop the agreements signed with the Zionist entity is a step in the right direction," a statement posted on the Hamas website read, before calling for further practical steps to be implemented, including the creation of a government of national unity."
                                                    
Israel is currently withholding 500 million shekels (138 million dollars) of Palestinian tax funds on grounds that the PA transfers the aforementioned sum to Palestinians convicted of terrorism in Israeli courts, their families, and released prisoners. Under the 1994 Paris Protocol, which established a customs union between Israel and the Palestinian Authority, Israel is supposed to collect value-added tax, import duties and other taxes on the PA's behalf and hand them over on a monthly basis. 
                                                    
More than 160,000 PA employees have gotten only half their salaries in past months. Unemployment in the West Bank has gone up to 31 percent and the tax dispute is likely to drive up the PA’s debt from $400 million to $1 billion, according to a World Bank report issued in April.
                                                    

                                    Your comment was successfully submitted and will be published in
                                    accordance with site policy.
                                

									If you would like to be notified when your comment is published,
									please fill in your email address in the form below.
								

										Sex Parties, Drugs and Gay Escorts at the Pope's Residence: Undercover in the Vatican 
			
Haaretz.com, the online edition of Haaretz Newspaper in Israel, and analysis from Israel and the Middle East. Haaretz.com provides extensive and in-depth coverage of Israel, the Jewish World and the Middle East, including defense, diplomacy, the Arab-Israeli conflict, the peace process, Israeli politics, Jerusalem affairs, international relations, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, the Palestinian Authority, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, the Israeli business world and Jewish life in Israel and the Diaspora.