Six hundred UK-based firms have signed up to move from Civil Aviation Authority to European regulator 
The UK’s Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) gives regulatory approval for British-made parts to be used throughout the EU, but that ability will lapse if the UK leaves without a deal.
Manufacturers which have not received authorisations from the EASA or other European aviation authorities would be unable to sell new parts to European customers, dealing a potentially crippling blow to many UK exporters.
The latest total of applications submitted by UK firms to the EASA for third-country certificates is 636, according to European commission sources, while about 10 more are in the process of completing their applications, almost four months after the date when the UK was first scheduled to leave the EU.
The aerospace lobby group ADS estimates that about 800 companies will eventually need new regulatory arrangements under a no-deal Brexit.
While the regulatory changes do not involve major job moves out of the UK, industry insiders said it could contribute towards making the UK less attractive for future inward investment. If the UK leaves the EU with a deal the EASA applications will immediately lapse, as CAA approvals will continue to be valid across Europe.
Paul Everitt, ADS’s chief executive, said the industry faces another “challenging period” as it looks to buy warehouse and transport space during the peak pre-Christmas period. Firms are also being forced to tie up money rebuilding stockpiles.
Everitt called for the government to provide a temporary VAT holiday to businesses if there is a no-deal Brexit, and added that the government should work with banks to temporarily relax loan repayment terms.
The aerospace and defence sectors together employ more than 260,000 people in the UK, according to ADS. The group fears that a no-deal scenario will impose billions of pounds worth of extra costs on the industry, with the impact on some goods equating to about 38% of their sale value. ADS estimates that new customs checks alone will cost an extra £1.5bn a year.