Thousands of chickens die in heatwave at farm supplying major UK supermarkets: ‘There was nothing we could do’
“It has been really tough carting these animals out of the farm over the past couple of days. Animal activists don’t think that we care about them, but we really do.”
Northern Ireland-based Moy Park, which says it is one of the UK’s top 15 food companies, supplies supermarkets including Tesco, Sainsbury’s and Ocado.
Another critic tweeted: “No excuse. Technology exists to cool buildings like this to keep the inside at a comfortable temperature. 
“Even on normal summer days those tin boxes must be uncomfortable. Yes it would cost money, but I’m guessing consumers would sooner pay more than see stories like this.”
Rows of filthy mink cages at a fur farm in Quebec, 2010. On a tip that the animals were being treated poorly, the Ministry of Natural Resources and the SPCA were granted a warrant to perform an inspection and seize animals from a fur farm in Quebec. They rescued and re-homed several animals, but had to euthanize many that were too sick, old, injured, dehydrated and starving. This seizure led to the first ever criminal charges against a fur farmer in Canada
A mink feeds off a dead fellow in a filthy cage at a fur farm in Quebec, Canada, 2014. Mink are solitary animals who fight, cannibalise and kill when in cramped confinement like this
Mink kits crammed in to a small cage at a fur farm in Sweden, 2010. The paper notes that there were ten in this cage and now two have died; eight remain
Rows of filthy mink cages at a fur farm in Quebec, 2010. On a tip that the animals were being treated poorly, the Ministry of Natural Resources and the SPCA were granted a warrant to perform an inspection and seize animals from a fur farm in Quebec. They rescued and re-homed several animals, but had to euthanize many that were too sick, old, injured, dehydrated and starving. This seizure led to the first ever criminal charges against a fur farmer in Canada
A mink feeds off a dead fellow in a filthy cage at a fur farm in Quebec, Canada, 2014. Mink are solitary animals who fight, cannibalise and kill when in cramped confinement like this
Mink kits crammed in to a small cage at a fur farm in Sweden, 2010. The paper notes that there were ten in this cage and now two have died; eight remain
Compassion in World Farming says most chickens reared for meat are confined in industrial, barren sheds where birds cannot avoid the heat as they would in natural conditions.
“It can get very hot inside the sheds, especially in summer. If the ventilation system fails, thousands of birds can die of heat stress,” the organisation says.
“We will continue to work with the poultry industry to review how to minimise the impact of extreme weather conditions on their farms.”
A spokesperson for Moy Park, which processes more than 280 million birds a year, said: “We are working closely with our farming partners to monitor the situation and have implemented procedures to help protect our birds against the extreme heat.” It was not immediately clear whether that was after Thursday’s disaster.
A spokeswoman for the British Poultry Council said she was not aware of any previous cases of mass deaths caused by extreme weather.
Farmers worked to Red Tractor best practice guidelines, including providing extra ventilation and temperature-controlled systems, and being more vigilant, she said.
A Sainsbury’s spokeswoman said: “Animal welfare is extremely important and we’re in close contact with our suppliers about last week’s record temperatures.”
An Ocado spokesperson said: “We carry out regular audits of all our suppliers to ensure the welfare of livestock is managed to the highest standards. We are working closely with our supplier to fully investigate.”
Swearing, personal abuse, racism, sexism, homophobia and other discriminatory or inciteful
                      language is not acceptable
Swearing, personal abuse, racism, sexism, homophobia and other discriminatory or inciteful
                      language is not acceptable
Want to discuss real-world problems, be involved in the most engaging discussions and hear from the
        journalists? Try Independent Minds free for 1 month. 
Independent Minds Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Minds.
      It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss
      real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when
      they can to create a true meeting of independent minds. The most insightful comments on all subjects
      will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies
      to your comment.
    

      The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to
      Independent Minds. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post
      the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please
      continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
    