EXCLUSIVE: 'I should have done something': RCMP officer says he let fugitives slip through his fingers after they blew through a police checkpoint

Royal Canadian Mounted Police Constable Albert Saunders (pictured) told DailyMail.com how he stopped Kam McLeod and Bryer Schmegelsky on July 22, in Split Lake, northern Manitoba, but let them go  
A police officer described to DailyMailTV how he stopped - but then let go - the two murder suspects because news of their alleged triple murder spree had not reached his small town in Manitoba.
Royal Canadian Mounted Police Constable Albert Saunders stopped teenagers Kam McLeod, 19, and Bryer Schmegelsky, 18, and searched their 2011 gray Toyota RAV4, after they blew through a police checkpoint at Split Lake, northern Manitoba on July 22.  
Royal Canadian Mounted Police corporal discusses manhunt for two teens suspected in killing spree (video by Fox News)
JuJu Smith-Schuster promised a fan tickets to any Pittsburgh Steelers game if he got a tattoo of his signature on his head. The fan delivered.
A boyfriend in Florida is showing love has no boundaries. Eric Camarillo, 31, traveled more than 5,000 miles to pop the question to his girlfriend, Admelyz Bueno, 27. She was studying abroad in Athens, Greece, when people at her dorm told her to sit down and watch a video on an iPad. In the video, Camarillo shops for a suit and decorations, then hops two flights. By the end, he's on the rooftop of her building with a ring. InsideEdition.com's Lisa Voyticki has more.
In an exclusive interview, Saunders said, 'I didn't really know those guys were on the run, that's why I didn't think much about it at first, until after they posted the pictures of them the next day,' Saunders said. 
The pair are wanted in the deaths of three people in northern British Columbia, 3,000 kilometres from where Saunders is based.
But RCMP only warned its officers to be on the lookout for McLeod and Schmegelsky, both of Port Alberni, British Columbia, on July 23 - the day after Saunders spotted them.
Saunders described how he is now wracked with guilt after discovering he could have stopped the alleged serial killers in their tracks.
Saunders said the teens drove past him and RCMP partner Morgan Spence at a traffic checkpoint in the RAV4, which had not yet been reported stolen from murder victim Leonard Dyck. 
Saunders said,'They slowed down and then they drove by. I had the lights on and I was standing outside the truck. Me and my partner jumped in the truck and we went to stop them.'
JuJu Smith-Schuster promised a fan tickets to any Pittsburgh Steelers game if he got a tattoo of his signature on his head. The fan delivered.
A boyfriend in Florida is showing love has no boundaries. Eric Camarillo, 31, traveled more than 5,000 miles to pop the question to his girlfriend, Admelyz Bueno, 27. She was studying abroad in Athens, Greece, when people at her dorm told her to sit down and watch a video on an iPad. In the video, Camarillo shops for a suit and decorations, then hops two flights. By the end, he's on the rooftop of her building with a ring. InsideEdition.com's Lisa Voyticki has more.
He said, 'They turned off their engine, and I asked them why didn't they stop, they were supposed to stop when the lights are on.  
'They were just telling me 'sorry'. I asked them where they came from. 'Vancouver' they told me. They looked scared.
'I spoke to the one with the mustache, Kam McLeod. He just kept saying, 'Sorry'. They didn't say where they were going.'
JuJu Smith-Schuster promised a fan tickets to any Pittsburgh Steelers game if he got a tattoo of his signature on his head. The fan delivered.
A boyfriend in Florida is showing love has no boundaries. Eric Camarillo, 31, traveled more than 5,000 miles to pop the question to his girlfriend, Admelyz Bueno, 27. She was studying abroad in Athens, Greece, when people at her dorm told her to sit down and watch a video on an iPad. In the video, Camarillo shops for a suit and decorations, then hops two flights. By the end, he's on the rooftop of her building with a ring. InsideEdition.com's Lisa Voyticki has more.
'I told them I was going to do a quick search, and then I searched up,' Saunders said. 'They kept looking at each other. There was a couple of boxes in the back.'
Saunders said, 'I told them to stop next time there's a situation like this, and they said 'yep' and 'sorry', and they went. They pulled into town, got some gas, then went. They were heading up towards Gillam.'
They did head to Gillam, a small town 100 miles east of Split Lake. The stolen RAV4 was discovered burnt out there on July 23. 
As officers at the Split Lake traffic stop are unarmed and have no bullet-proof vests, Saunders said he felt he also had a close brush with death that day.
'After I found out who they were I realized I could have got shot, or something could have happened to us. I was thinking about it a lot after I found out,' he said.
Constable Saunder's cousin, Split Lake town councilor Robert Spence, described how the officers found nothing in the alleged killers' car.
He told DailyMailTV, 'Morgan was talking to the thinner one, Schmegelsky. He was quiet. Morgan said that they'd have to take a look around, check their vehicle for alcohol or drugs.
'But looking at the vehicle that they were driving in, the constable said all that was in there was survival gear, blankets and a lot of maps.
Councillor Spence added that he believed the officers, unaware that the teens were wanted in connection with three deaths and were lucky to walk away with their lives.
'They were pretty freaked out about it. They said that anything could have happened, especially two constables that weren't equipped or supplied with personal protective gear,' he told DailyMailTV.
'[Spence and Saunders were] dressed just like you and I, just regular clothes, no uniforms, no guns, no pepper spray, no batons, no nothing,' he added.
'All they do is stop the vehicle traffic coming into the community checking for alcohol and drugs. They were pretty damn lucky they didn't get shot or killed for stopping those two individuals.'
McLeod and Schmegelsky are accused of killing Chynna Deese, 24, of Charlotte, North Carolina, and her Australian boyfriend, 23-year-old Lucas Fowler in Liard Hot Springs in northern British Columbia.
They are also accused of killing Vancouver botanist Dyck, 64, in Dease Lake, British Columbia, before stealing his car.
After discovering their burnt car in Gillam, police have shifted their search for the pair to York Landing, a small town with a population of 443, following reports the pair were spotted foraging for food at a landfill.
RCMP issued a tweet saying "it is critical" that residents in York Landing "stay indoors as much as possible with their doors locked." 